




, thank you very much. They were the lastpeople you'd expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious,because they just didn't hold with such nonsense.
ith hardly any neck, although he didhave a very large mustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin and blonde and hadnearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as shespent so much of her time craning over garden fences, spying on theneighbors. The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley and in theiropinion there was no finer boy anywhere.
somebody would discover it. They didn'tthink they could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters. Mrs.Potter was Mrs. Dursley's sister, but they hadn't met for several years;in fact, Mrs. Dursley pretended she didn't have a sister, because hersister and her good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as it waspossible to be. The Dursleys shuddered to think what the neighbors wouldsay if the Potters arrived in the street. The Dursleys knew that thePotters had a small son, too, but they had never even seen him. This boywas another good reason for keeping the Potters away; they didn't wantDudley mixing with a child like that.
the cloudy sky outside to suggest thatstrange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over thecountry. Mr. Dursley hummed as he picked out his most boring tie forwork, and Mrs. Dursley gossiped away happily as she wrestled a screamingDudley into his high chair.

to kiss Dudley good-bye but missed,


Mr. Dursley as he left the house. He gotinto his car and backed out of number four's drive.
ing a map. For a second, Mr. Dursleydidn't realize what he had seen -- then he jerked his head around tolook again. There was a tabby cat standing on the corner of PrivetDrive, but there wasn't a map in sight. What could he have been thinkingof? It must have been a trick of the light. Mr. Dursley blinked andstared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr. Dursley drove around thecorner and up the road, he watched the cat in his mirror. It was nowreading the sign that said Privet Drive -- no, looking at the sign; catscouldn't read maps or signs. Mr. Dursley gave himself a little shake andput the cat out of his mind. As he drove toward town he thought ofnothing except a large order of drills he was hoping to get that day.
morning traffic jam, he couldn't helpnoticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed peopleabout. People in cloaks. Mr. Dursley couldn't bear people who dressed infunny clothes -- the getups you saw on young people! He supposed thiswas some stupid new fashion. He drummed his fingers on the steeringwheel and his eyes fell on a huddle of these weirdos standing quiteclose by. They were whispering excitedly together. Mr. Dursley wasenraged to see that a couple of them weren't young at all; why, that manhad to be older than he was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak! Thenerve of him! But then it struck Mr. Dursley that this was probably somesilly stunt -- these people were obviously collecting for something...yes, that would be it. The traffic moved on and a few minutes later, Mr.Dursley arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, his mind back on drills.
might have found it harder to concentrateon drills that morning. He didn't see the owls swoop ing past in broaddaylight, though people down in the street did; they pointed and gazedopen- mouthed as owl after owl sped overhead. Most of them had neverseen an owl even at nighttime. Mr. Dursley, however, had a perfectlynormal, owl-free morning. He yelled at five different people. He madeseveral important telephone calls and shouted a bit more. He was in avery good mood until lunchtime, when he thought he'd stretch his legsand walk across the road to buy himself a bun from the bakery.


eyed them angrily as he passed. He didn'tknow why, but they made him uneasy. This bunch were whisperingexcitedly, too, and he couldn't see a single collecting tin. It was onhis way back past them, clutching a large doughnut in a bag, that hecaught a few words of what they were saying.

omething to them, but thought betterof it.
, seized his telephone, and had almostfinished dialing his home number when he changed his mind. He put thereceiver back down and stroked his mustache, thinking... no, he wasbeing stupid. Potter wasn't such an unusual name. He was sure there werelots of people called Potter who had a son called Harry. Come to thinkof it, he wasn't even sure his nephew was called Harry. He'd never evenseen the boy. It might have been Harvey. Or Harold. There was no pointin worrying Mrs. Dursley; she always got so upset at any mention of hersister. He didn't blame her -- if he'd had a sister like that... but allthe same, those people in cloaks...
e o'clock, he was still so worried thathe walked straight into someone just outside the door.
rsley realized that the man was wearing aviolet cloak. He didn't seem at all upset at being almost knocked to theground. On the contrary, his face split into a wide smile and he said ina squeaky voice that made passersby stare, "Don't be sorry, my dear sir,for nothing could upset me today! Rejoice, for You-Know-Who has gone atlast! Even Muggles like yourself should be celebrating, this happy,happy day!"

ad been called a Muggle, whatever thatwas. He was rattled. He hurried to his car and set off for home, hoping



od -- was the tabby cat he'd spotted thatmorning. It was now sitting on his garden wall. He was sure it was thesame one; it had the same markings around its eyes.
cat behavior? Mr. Dursley wondered. Tryingto pull himself together, he let himself into the house. He was stilldetermined not to mention anything to his wife.
with her daughter and how Dudley hadlearned a new word ("Won't!"). Mr. Dursley tried to act normally. WhenDudley had been put to bed, he went into the living room in time tocatch the last report on the evening news:
nusually today. Although owls normallyhunt at night and are hardly ever seen in daylight, there have beenhundreds of sightings of these birds flying in every direction sincesunrise. Experts are unable to explain why the owls have suddenlychanged their sleeping pattern." The newscaster allowed himself a grin."Most mysterious. And now, over to Jim McGuffin with the weather. Goingto be any more showers of owls tonight, Jim?"
acting oddly today. Viewers as far apart asKent, Yorkshire, and Dundee have been phoning in to tell me that insteadof the rain I promised yesterday, they've had a downpour of shootingstars! Perhaps people have been celebrating Bonfire Night early -- it'snot until next week, folks! But I can promise a wet night tonight."
terious people in cloaks all over the place?And a whisper, a whisper about the Potters...
ething to her. He cleared his throatnervously. "Er -- Petunia, dear -- you haven't heard from your sisterlately, have you?"


n't have a sister.

nny-looking people in town today..."


heard the name "Potter." He decided hedidn't dare. Instead he said, as casually as he could, "Their son --he'd be about Dudley's age now, wouldn't he?"




bathroom, Mr. Dursley crept to the bedroomwindow and peered down into the front garden. The cat was still there.It was staring down Privet Drive as though it were waiting forsomething.
out that they were related to a pair of-- well, he didn't think he could bear it.
over in his mind. His last, comfortingthought before he fell asleep was that even if the Potters wereinvolved, there was no reason for them to come near him and Mrs.Dursley. The Potters knew very well what he and Petunia thought about


be going on -- he yawned and turned over-- it couldn't affect them....

g no sign of sleepiness. It was sitting asstill as a statue, its eyes fixed unblinkingly on the far corner ofPrivet Drive. It didn't so much as quiver when a car door slammed on thenext street, nor when two owls swooped overhead. In fact, it was nearlymidnight before the cat moved at all.
thought he'd just popped out of theground. The cat's tail twitched and its eyes narrowed.
the silver of his hair and beard, whichwere both long enough to tuck into his belt. He was wearing long robes,a purple cloak that swept the ground, and high-heeled, buckled boots.His blue eyes were light, bright, and sparkling behind half-moonspectacles and his nose was very long and crooked, as though it had beenbroken at least twice. This man's name was Albus Dumbledore.
s name to his boots was unwelcome. He wasbusy rummaging in his cloak, looking for something. But he did seem torealize he was being watched, because he looked up suddenly at the cat,which was still staring at him from the other end of the street. Forsome reason, the sight of the cat seemed to amuse him. He chuckled andmuttered, "I should have known."
flicked it open, held it up in the air, andclicked it. The nearest street lamp went out with a little pop. Heclicked it again -- the next lamp flickered into darkness. Twelve timeshe clicked the Put-Outer, until the only lights left on the whole streetwere two tiny pinpricks in the distance, which were the eyes of the catwatching him. If anyone looked out of their window now, even beady-eyedMrs. Dursley, they wouldn't be able to see anything that was happeningdown on the pavement. Dumbledore slipped the Put-Outer back inside hiscloak and set off down the street toward number four, where he sat down




oman who was wearing square glasses exactlythe shape of the markings the cat had had around its eyes. She, too, waswearing a cloak, an emerald one. Her black hair was drawn into a tightbun. She looked distinctly ruffled.



ay here."

careful, but no -- even the Muggleshave noticed something's going on. It was on their news." She jerked herhead back at the Dursleys' dark living-room window. "I heard it. Flocksof owls... shooting stars.... Well, they're not completely stupid. Theywere bound to notice something. Shooting stars down in Kent -- I'll betthat was Dedalus Diggle. He never had much sense."
ars."
re being downright careless, out onthe streets in broad daylight, not even dressed in Muggle clothes,swapping rumors."
thing, but he didn't, so she went on. "Afine thing it would be if, on the very day YouKnow-Who seems to havedisappeared at last, the Muggles found out about us all. I suppose he



n drop?"


lemon drops. "As I say, even ifYou-Know-Who has gone -"
now-Who' nonsense -- for eleven years Ihave been trying to persuade people to call him by his proper name:Voldemort." Professor McGonagall flinched, but Dumbledore, who wasunsticking two lemon drops, seemed not to notice. "It all gets soconfusing if we keep saying 'You-Know-Who.' I have never seen any reasonto be frightened of saying Voldemort's name.
e different. Everyone knows you'rethe only one You-Know- oh, all right, Voldemort, was frightened of."


s."
rs that are flying around. You know whateveryone's saying? About why he's disappeared? About what finallystopped him?"
eason she had been waiting on a cold, hardwall all day, for neither as a cat nor as a woman had she fixedDumbledore with such a piercing stare as she did now. It was plain thatwhatever "everyone" was saying, she was not going to believe it until


wer.
went to find the Potters. The rumor isthat Lily and James Potter are -- are -- that they're -- dead. "



l the Potter's son, Harry. But -- hecouldn't. He couldn't kill that little boy. No one knows why, or how,but they're saying that when he couldn't kill Harry Potter, Voldemort'spower somehow broke -- and that's why he's gone.

d... he couldn't kill a little boy?It's just astounding... of all the things to stop him... but how in thename of heaven did Harry survive?"

mbledore gave a great sniff as he took agolden watch from his pocket and examined it. It was a very odd watch.It had twelve hands but no numbers; instead, little planets were movingaround the edge. It must have made sense to Dumbledore, though, becausehe put it back in his pocket and said, "Hagrid's late. I suppose it washe who told you I'd be here, by the way?"
l places?"



er feet and pointing at number four."Dumbledore -- you can't. I've been watching them all day. You couldn'tfind two people who are less like us. And they've got this son -- I sawhim kicking his mother all the way up the street, screaming for sweets.Harry Potter come and live here!"
erything to him when he's older. I'vewritten them a letter."
, you think you can explain all this in aletter? These people will never understand him! He'll be famous -- alegend -- I wouldn't be surprised if today was known as Harry Potter dayin the future -- there will be books written about Harry -- every childin our world will know his name!"
e enough to turn any boy's head. Famousbefore he can walk and talk! Famous for something he won't evenremember! CarA you see how much better off he'll be, growing up awayfrom all that until he's ready to take it?"
e right, of course. But how is the boygetting here, Dumbledore?" She eyed his cloak suddenly as though shethought he might be hiding Harry underneath it.



an't pretend he's not careless. He doestend to -- what was that?"
d down the street for some sign of a


f the air and landed on the road in front ofthem.
as a normal man and at least five timesas wide. He looked simply too big to be allowed, and so wild - longtangles of bushy black hair and beard hid most of his face, he had handsthe size of trash can lids, and his feet in their leather boots werelike baby dolphins. In his vast, muscular arms he was holding a bundleof blankets.

spoke. "Young Sirius Black lent it tome. I've got him, sir."

n' around. He fell asleep as we wasflyin' over Bristol."
as a baby boy, fast asleep. Under atuft of jet-black hair over his forehead they could see a curiouslyshaped cut, like a bolt of lightning.



perfect map of the London Underground. Well-- give him here, Hagrid -- we'd better get this over with."




suddenly, Hagrid let out a howl like awounded dog.

I c-c-can't stand it -- Lily an' James dead-- an' poor little Harry off ter live with Muggles -"
agall whispered, patting Hagrid gingerlyon the arm as Dumbledore stepped over the low garden wall and walked tothe front door. He laid Harry gently on the doorstep, took a letter outof his cloak, tucked it inside Harry's blankets, and then came back tothe other two. For a full minute the three of them stood and looked atthe little bundle; Hagrid's shoulders shook, Professor McGonagallblinked furiously, and the twinkling light that usually shone fromDumbledore's eyes seemed to have gone out.
join the celebrations."
McGonagall -- Professor Dumbledore, sir."
he engine into life; with a roar it roseinto the air and off into the night.
Gonagall blew her nose in reply.
ut-Outer. He clicked it once, andtwelve balls of light sped back to their street lamps so that PrivetDrive glowed suddenly orange and he could make out a tabby cat slinkingaround the corner at the other end of the street. He could just see thebundle of blankets on the step of number four.



ery last place you would expectastonishing things to happen. Harry Potter rolled over inside hisblankets without waking up. One small hand closed on the letter besidehim and he slept on, not knowing he was special, not knowing he wasfamous, not knowing he would be woken in a few hours' time by Mrs.Dursley's scream as she opened the front door to put out the milkbottles, nor that he would spend the next few weeks being prodded andpinched by his cousin Dudley... He couldn't know that at this verymoment, people meeting in secret all over the country were holding uptheir glasses and saying in hushed voices: "To Harry Potter -- the boywho lived!"


ut Privet Drive had hardly changed atall. The sun rose on the same tidy front gardens and lit up the brassnumber four on the Dursleys' front door; it crept into their livingroom, which was almost exactly the same as it had been on the night whenMr. Dursley had seen that fateful news report about the owls. Only thephotographs on the mantelpiece really showed how much time had passed.Ten years ago, there had been lots of pictures of what looked like alarge pink beach ball wearing different-colored bonnets -- but DudleyDursley was no longer a baby, and now the photographs showed a largeblond boy riding his first bicycle, on a carousel at the fair, playing acomputer game with his father, being hugged and kissed by his mother.The room held no sign at all that another boy lived in the house, too.
and it was her shrill voice that madethe first noise of the day.


being put on the stove. He rolled onto hisback and tried to remember the dream he had been having. It had been a


fore.



ything perfect on Duddy's birthday."



socks. He found a pair under his bed and,after pulling a spider off one of them, put them on. Harry was used tospiders, because the cupboard under the stairs was full of them, andthat was where he slept.
udley's birthday presents. It looked asthough Dudley had gotten the new computer he wanted, not to mention thesecond television and the racing bike. Exactly why Dudley wanted aracing bike was a mystery to Harry, as Dudley was very fat and hatedexercise -- unless of course it involved punching somebody. Dudley'sfavorite punching bag was Harry, but he couldn't often catch him. Harrydidn't look it, but he was very fast.
inny for his age. He looked even smaller andskinnier than he really was because all he had to wear were old clothesof Dudley's, and Dudley was about four times bigger than he was. Harryhad a thin face, knobbly knees, black hair, and bright green eyes. Hewore round glasses held together with a lot of Scotch tape because ofall the times Dudley had punched him on the nose. The only thing Harryliked about his own appearance was a very thin scar on his forehead thatwas shaped like a bolt of lightning. He had had it as long as he couldremember, and the first question he could ever remember asking his Aunt







haircut. Harry must have had more haircutsthan the rest of the boys in his class put

like Uncle Vernon. He had a large pink face,not much neck, small, watery blue eyes, and thick blond hair that laysmoothly on his thick, fat head. Aunt Petunia often said that Dudleylooked like a baby angel -- Harry often said that Dudley looked like apig in a wig.
dley, meanwhile, was counting his presents.His face fell.

d Daddy."
y tantrum coming on, began wolfing downhis bacon as fast as possible in case Dudley turned the table over.
presents while we're out today. How'sthat, popkin? Two more presents. Is that all right''


.. thirty..."


" He ruffled Dudley's hair.
ched Dudley unwrap the racing bike, avideo camera, a remote control airplane, sixteen new computer games, anda VCR. He was ripping the paper off a gold wristwatch when Aunt Petuniacame back from the telephone looking both angry and worried.
n Harry's direction.
is parents took him and a friend out for theday, to adventure parks, hamburger restaurants, or the movies. Everyyear, Harry was left behind with Mrs. Figg, a mad old lady who lived twostreets away. Harry hated it there. The whole house smelled of cabbageand Mrs. Figg made him look at photographs of all the cats she'd everowned.
ought to feel sorry that Mrs. Figg hadbroken her leg, but it wasn't easy when he reminded himself it would bea whole year before he had to look at Tibbles, Snowy, Mr. Paws, andTufty again.


was something very nasty that couldn'tunderstand them, like a slug.




ision for a change and maybe even have a goon Dudley's computer).



"

ried -- but he knew that if he screwed uphis face and wailed, his mother would give him anything he wanted.
s around him.
spoils everything!" He shot Harry a nastygrin through the gap in his mother's arms.
moment later, Dudley's best friend, PiersPolkiss, walked in with his mother. Piers was a scrawny boy with a facelike a rat. He was usually the one who held people's arms behind theirbacks while Dudley hit them. Dudley stopped pretending to cry at once.
r with Piers and Dudley, on the way to thezoo for the first time in his life. His aunt and uncle hadn't been ableto think of anything else to do with him, but before they'd left, UncleVernon had taken Harry aside.



n that cupboard from now untilChristmas."


eys he didn't make them happen.
ll, had taken a pair of kitchen scissorsand cut his hair so short he was almost bald except for his bangs, whichshe left "to hide that horrible scar." Dudley had laughed himself sillyat Harry, who spent a sleepless night imagining school the next day,where he was already laughed at for his baggy clothes and taped glasses.Next morning, however, he had gotten up to find his hair exactly as ithad been before Aunt Petunia had sheared it off He had been given a weekin his cupboard for this, even though he had tried to explain that hecouldn't explain how it had grown back so quickly.
wn with orange puff balls) -- The harder shetried to pull it over his head, the smaller it seemed to become, untilfinally it might have fitted a hand puppet, but certainly wouldn't fitHarry. Aunt Petunia had decided it must have shrunk in the wash and, tohis great relief, Harry wasn't punished.
ns. Dudley's gang had been chasing him asusual when, as much to Harry's surprise as anyone else's, there he wassitting on the chimney. The Dursleys had received a very angry letterfrom Harry's headmistress telling them Harry had been climbing schoolbuildings. But all he'd tried to do (as he shouted at Uncle Vernonthrough the locked door of his cupboard) was jump behind the big trashcans outside the kitchen doors. Harry supposed that the wind must havecaught him in mid- jump.
g the day somewhere that wasn't school,his cupboard, or Mrs. Figg's cabbage-smelling living room.


work, Harry, the council, Harry, thebank, and Harry were just a few of his favorite subjects. This morning,it was motorcycles.


arry, his face like a gigantic beetwith a mustache: "MOTORCYCLES DON'T FLY!"


sking questions, it was his talkingabout anything acting in a way it shouldn't, no matter if it was in adream or even a cartoon -- they seemed to think he might get dangerousideas.
ers large chocolate ice creams at theentrance and then, because the smiling lady in the van had asked Harrywhat he wanted before they could hurry him away, they bought him a cheaplemon ice pop. It wasn't bad, either, Harry thought, licking it as theywatched a gorilla scratching its head who looked remarkably like Dudley,except that it wasn't blond.
e Dursleys so that Dudley and Piers, whowere starting to get bored with the animals by lunchtime, wouldn't fallback on their favorite hobby of hitting him. They ate in the zoorestaurant, and when Dudley had a tantrum because his knickerbockerglory didn't have enough ice cream on top, Uncle Vernon bought himanother one and Harry was allowed to finish the first.



the walls. Behind the glass, all sortsof lizards and snakes were crawling and slithering over bits of wood andstone. Dudley and Piers wanted to see huge, poisonous cobras and thick,man-crushing pythons. Dudley quickly found the largest snake in theplace. It could have wrapped its body twice around Uncle Vernon's carand crushed it into a trash can -- but at the moment it didn't look inthe mood. In fact, it was fast asleep.

.
just snoozed on.

it had died of boredom itself -- nocompany except stupid people drumming their fingers on the glass tryingto disturb it all day long. It was worse than having a cupboard as abedroom, where the only visitor was Aunt Petunia hammering on the doorto wake you up; at least he got to visit the rest of the house.
on a level with Harry's.

ck at the snake and winked, too.
e Harry a look that said quite plainly:

be really annoying."







e zoo. "Oh, I see -- so you've never been toBrazil?"



e concrete floor. What came next happenedso fast no one saw how it happened -- one second, Piers and Dudley wereleaning right up close to the glass, the next, they had leapt back withhowls of horror.
was uncoiling itself rapidly, slitheringout onto the floor. People throughout the reptile house screamed andstarted running for the exits.
come.... Thanksss, amigo."




er again. Piers and Dudley could onlygibber. As far as Harry had seen, the snake hadn't done anything exceptsnap playfully at their heels as it passed, but by the time they wereall back in Uncle Vernon's car, Dudley was telling them how it hadnearly bitten off his leg, while Piers was swearing it had tried tosqueeze him to death. But worst of all, for Harry at least, was Pierscalming down enough to say, "Harry was talking to it, weren't you,Harry?"
he could hardly speak. He managed tosay, "Go -- cupboard -- stay -- no meals," before he collapsed into achair, and Aunt Petunia had to run and get him a large brandy.
d he couldn't be sure the Dursleys wereasleep yet. Until they were, he couldn't risk sneaking to the kitchenfor some food.
r since he'd been a baby and his parentshad died in that car crash. He couldn't remember being in the car whenhis parents had died. Sometimes, when he strained his memory during longhours in his cupboard, he came up with a strange vision: a blindingflash of green light and a burn- ing pain on his forehead. This, hesupposed, was the crash, though he couldn't imagine where all the greenlight came from. He couldn't remember his parents at all. His aunt anduncle never spoke about them, and of course he was forbidden to askquestions. There were no photographs of them in the house.
way, but it had never happened; theDursleys were his only family. Yet sometimes he thought (or maybe hoped)that strangers in the street seemed to know him. Very strange strangersthey were, too. A tiny man in a violet top hat had bowed to him oncewhile out shopping with Aunt Petunia and Dudley. After asking Harryfuriously if he knew the man, Aunt Petunia had rushed them out of theshop without buying anything. A wild-looking old woman dressed all ingreen had waved merrily at him once on a bus. A bald man in a very longpurple coat had actually shaken his hand in the street the other day andthen walked away without a word. The weirdest thing about all thesepeople was the way they seemed to vanish the second Harry tried to get a



gy old clothes and broken glasses, andnobody liked to disagree with Dudley's gang.


was allowed out of his cupboardagain, the summer holidays had started and Dudley had already broken hisnew video camera, crashed his remote control airplane, and, first timeout on his racing bike, knocked down old Mrs. Figg as she crossed PrivetDrive on her crutches.
single day. Piers, Dennis, Malcolm, andGordon were all big and stupid, but as Dudley was the biggest andstupidest of the lot, he was the leader. The rest of them were all quitehappy to join in Dudley's favorite sport: Harry Hunting.
ut the end of the holidays, where hecould see a tiny ray of hope. When September came he would be going offto secondary school and, for the first time in his life, he wouldn't bewith Dudley. Dudley had been accepted at Uncle Vernon's old privateschool, Smeltings. Piers Polkiss was going there too. Harry, on theother hand, was going to Stonewall High, the local public school. Dudleythought this was very funny.
upstairs and practice?"
t might be sick." Then he ran, beforeDudley could work out what he'd said.
s. Figg's. Mrs. Figg wasn 't as bad asusual. It turned out she'd broken her leg tripping over one of her cats,


t of chocolate cake that tasted as thoughshe'd had it for several years.
s' boys wore maroon tailcoats, orangeknickerbockers, and flat straw hats called boaters. They also carriedknobbly sticks, used for hitting each other while the teachers weren'tlooking. This was supposed to be good training for later life.
moment of his life. Aunt Petunia burstinto tears and said she couldn't believe it was her Ickle Dudleykins, helooked so handsome and grown-up. Harry didn't trust himself to speak. Hethought two of his ribs might already have cracked from trying not tolaugh.
d to be coming from a large metal tub inthe sink. He went to have a look. The tub was full of what looked likedirty rags swimming in gray water.
tion.



ook just like everyone else's when I'vefinished."
t to think about how he was going to lookon his first day at Stonewall High -- like he was wearing bits of oldelephant skin, probably.
rm. Uncle Vernon opened his newspaper asusual and Dudley banged his Smelting stick, which he carried everywhere,









from Uncle Vernon's sister Marge, who wasvacationing on the Isle of Wight, a brown envelope that looked like abill, and -- a letter for Harry.
is whole life, had written to him. Whowould? He had no friends, no other relatives -- he didn't belong to thelibrary, so he'd never even got rude notes asking for books back. Yethere it was, a letter, addressed so plainly there could be no mistake:





-green ink. There was no stamp.
lion, an eagle, a badger, and a snakesurrounding a large letter H.


s?" He chuckled at his own joke.
postcard, sat down, and slowly began toopen the yellow envelope.



envelope, when it was jerked sharply out ofhis hand by Uncle Vernon.

t it. His face went from red to green fasterthan a set of traffic lights. And it didn't stop there. Within secondsit was the grayish white of old porridge.

nia took it curiously and read the firstline. For a moment it looked as though she might faint. She clutched herthroat and made a choking noise.

dley wasn't used to being ignored. Hegave his father a sharp tap on the head with his Smelting stick.







them into the hall, slamming thekitchen door behind them. Harry and Dudley promptly had a furious butsilent fight over who would listen at the keyhole; Dudley won, so Harry,his glasses dangling from one ear, lay flat on his stomach to listen atthe crack between door and floor.
ly know where he sleeps? You don't thinkthey're watching the house?"



n't do anything....

ngerous nonsense?"
d Harry in his cupboard.
g to me?"




aths and then forced his face into asmile, which looked quite painful.
a bit big for it... we think it mightbe nice if you moved into Dudley's second bedroom.


ly Uncle Vernon's sister, Marge), onewhere Dudley slept, and one where Dudley kept all the toys and thingsthat wouldn't fit into his first bedroom. It only took Harry one tripupstairs to move everything he owned from the cupboard to this room. Hesat down on the bed and stared around him. Nearly everything in here wasbroken. The month-old video camera was lying on top of a small, workingtank Dudley had once driven over the next door neighbor's dog; in thecorner was Dudley's first-ever television set, which he'd put his footthrough when his favorite program had been canceled; there was a largebirdcage, which had once held a parrot that Dudley had swapped at schoolfor a real air rifle, which was up on a shelf with the end all bentbecause Dudley had sat on it. Other shelves were full of books. Theywere the only things in the room that looked as though they'd never beentouched.
hat room... make him get out...."
'd rather be back in his cupboard withthat letter than up here without it.
father with his Smelting stick, beensick on purpose, kicked his mother, and thrown his tortoise through thegreenhouse roof, and he still didn't have his room back. Harry was


non and Aunt Petunia kept looking at eachother darkly.
get it. They heard him banging things withhis Smelting stick all the way down the hall. Then he shouted, "There'sanother one! 'Mr. H. Potter, The Smallest Bedroom, 4 Privet Drive --'"
Uncle Vernon had to wrestle Dudley to theground to get the letter from him, which was made difficult by the factthat Harry had grabbed Uncle Vernon around the neck from behind. After aminute of confused fighting, in which everyone got hit a lot by theSmelting stick, Uncle Vernon straightened up, gasping for breath, withHarry's letter clutched in his hand.

med to know he hadn't received his firstletter. Surely that meant they'd try again? And this time he'd make surethey didn't fail. He had a plan.
d silently. He mustn't wake theDursleys. He stole downstairs without turning on any of the lights.
r first. His heart hammered as he creptacross the dark hall toward the front door --
!
his uncle's face. Uncle Vernon had beenlying at the foot of the front door in a sleeping bag, clearly makingsure that Harry didn't do exactly what he'd been trying to do. Heshouted at Harry for about half an hour and then told him to go and makea cup of tea. Harry shuffled miserably off into the kitchen and by thetime he got back, the mail had arrived, right into Uncle Vernon's lap.



on didnt go to work that day. Hestayed at home and nailed up the mail slot.
just give up."

non, trying to knock in a nail with thepiece of fruitcake Aunt Petunia had just brought him.
hey had been pushed under the door,slotted through the sides, and a few even forced through the smallwindow in the downstairs bathroom.
oarded up the cracks around the front andback doors so no one could go out. He hummed "Tiptoe Through the Tulips"as he worked, and jumped at small noises.
ouse, rolled up and hidden inside eachof the two dozen eggs that their very confused milkman had handed AuntPetunia through the living room window. While Uncle Vernon made furioustelephone calls to the post office and the dairy trying to find someoneto complain to, Aunt Petunia shredded the letters in her food processor.

py.
letters today --"
e head. Next moment, thirty or forty


air trying to catch one.

had run out with their arms over theirfaces, Uncle Vernon slammed the door shut. They could hear the lettersstill streaming into the room, bouncing off the walls and floor.
at the same time. I want you all backhere in five minutes ready to leave. We're going away. Just pack someclothes. No arguments!"
had wrenched their way through theboarded-up doors and were in the car, speeding toward the highway.Dudley was sniffling in the back seat; his father had hit him round thehead for holding them up while he tried to pack his television, VCR, andcomputer in his sports bag.
en Uncle Vernon would take a sharp turn anddrive in the opposite direction for a while. "Shake'em off... shake 'emoff," he would mutter whenever he did this.
day in his life. He was hungry, he'dmissed five television programs he'd wanted to see, and he'd never goneso long without blowing up an alien on his computer.
d Harry shared a room with twin bedsand damp, musty sheets. Dudley snored but Harry stayed awake, sitting onthe windowsill, staring down at the lights of passing cars andwondering....
finished when the owner of thehotel came over to their table.











Vernon didn't seem to hear her. Exactlywhat he was looking for, none of them knew. He drove them into themiddle of a forest, got out, looked around, shook his head, got back inthe car, and off they went again. The same thing happened in the middleof a plowed field, halfway across a suspension bridge, and at the top ofa multilevel parking garage.
parked at the coast, locked them all insidethe car, and disappeared.

television. "
o know the days the week, because oftelevision -- then tomorrow, Tuesday, was Harry's eleventh birthday. Ofcourse, his birthdays were never exactly fun -- last year, the Dursleyshad given him a coat hanger and a pair of Uncle Vernon's old socks.Still, you weren't eleven every day.


Aunt Petunia when she asked what he'dbought.

at sea. Perched on top of the rock wasthe most miserable little shack you could imagine. One thing wascertain, there was no television in there.
tleman's kindly agreed to lend us hisboat!"
obbing in the iron-gray water belowthem.

their faces. After what seemed likehours they reached the rock, where Uncle Vernon, slipping and sliding,led the way to the broken-down house.
oden walls, and the fireplace wasdamp and empty. There were only two rooms.
e but the empty chip bags just smokedand shriveled up.

rm to deliver mail. Harry privatelyagreed, though the thought didn't cheer him up at all.
of the hut and a fierce wind rattled thefilthy windows. Aunt Petunia found a few moldy blankets in the second


bed next door, and Harry was left to findthe softest bit of floor he could and to curl up under the thinnest,most ragged blanket.
turned over, trying to get comfortable,his stomach rumbling with hunger. Dudley's snores were drowned by thelow rolls of thunder that started near midnight. The lighted dial ofDudley's watch, which was dangling over the edge of the sofa on his fatwrist, told Harry he'd be eleven in ten minutes' time. He lay andwatched his birthday tick nearer, wondering if the Dursleys wouldremember at all, wondering where the letter writer was now.
lthough he might be warmer if it did.Four minutes to go. Maybe the house in Privet Drive would be so full ofletters when they got back that he'd be able to steal one somehow.
hat was that funny crunching noise? Wasthe rock crumbling into the sea?
ey up, just to annoy him -- three... two...one...

ng to come in.



his hands -- now they knew what had beenin the long, thin package he had brought with them.





flat on the floor.
mane of hair and a wild, tangledbeard, but you could make out his eyes, glinting like black beetlesunder all the hair.
down, picked up the door, and fitted iteasily back into its frame. The noise of the storm outside dropped alittle. He turned to look at them all.





mile.
got yet mom's eyes."




the gun out of Uncle Vernon's hands, bentit into a knot as easily as if it had been made of rubber, and threw itinto a corner of the room.

ot summat fer yeh here -- I mighta sat onit at some point, but it'll taste all right."
rembling fingers. Inside was alarge, sticky chocolate cake with Happy Birthday Harry written on it ingreen icing.
th, and what he said instead was, "Who areyou?"



ger if yeh've got it, mind."
the fireplace; they couldn't see what hewas doing but when he drew back a second later, there was a roaring firethere. It filled the whole damp hut with flickering light and Harry feltthe warmth wash over him as though he'd sunk into a hot bath.
ngs out of the pockets of his coat: acopper kettle, a squashy package of sausages, a poker, a teapot, severalchipped mugs, and a bottle of some amber liquid that he took a swig frombefore starting to make tea. Soon the hut was full of the sound andsmell of sizzling sausage. Nobody said a thing while the giant wasworking, but as he slid the first six fat, juicy, slightly burnt


e gives you, Dudley."


still couldn't take his eyes off thegiant. Finally, as nobody seemed about to explain anything, he said,"I'm sorry, but I still don't really know who you are."

'll know all about Hogwarts, o' course.



m as should be sorry! I knew yeh weren'tgettin' yer letters but I never thought yeh wouldn't even know abou'Hogwarts, fer cryin' out loud! Did yeh never wonder where yet parentslearned it all?"


ainst the wall.
bou' -- about ANYTHING?"



and said, "About our world, I mean. Yourworld. My world. Yer parents' world."



ared wildly at Harry.


ldered stare.



Hagrid spoke, his every syllable trembledwith rage.
w Dumbledore leave it, Dursley! An'you've kept it from him all these years?"








"an' a thumpin' good'un, I'd say, onceyeh've been trained up a bit. With a mum an' dad like yours, what elsewould yeh be? An' I reckon it's abou' time yeh read yer letter."
. H. Potter, The Floor, Hut-on-the-Rock,The Sea. He pulled out the letter and read:


izards)

y. Please find enclosed a list of allnecessary books and equipment.



r a few minutes he stammered, "What doesit mean, they await my owl?"
to knock over a cart horse, and from yet


long quill, and a roll of parchment.With his tongue between his teeth he scribbled a note that Harry couldread upside down:





rew the owl out into the storm. Then hecame back and sat down as though this was as normal as talking on thetelephone.

y, moved into the firelight.




up in a family o' the biggest Muggles Iever laid eyes on."
it out of him! Wizard indeed!"




peared off to that-that school-and camehome every vacation with her pockets full of frog spawn, turning teacupsinto rats. I was the only one who saw her for what she was -- a freak!But for my mother and father, oh no, it was Lily this and Lily that,they were proud of having a witch in the family!"
this for years.
ou'd be just the same, just as strange,just as -- as -- abnormal -- and then, if you please, she went and gotherself blown up and we got landed with you!"
a car crash!"
ow could a car crash kill Lily an'James Potter? It's an outrage! A scandal! Harry Potter not knowin' hisown story when every kid in our world knows his name!" "But why? Whathappened?" Harry asked urgently.

ere might be trouble gettin' hold ofyeh, how much yeh didn't know. Ah, Harry, I don' know if I'm the rightperson ter tell yeh -- but someone 3 s gotta -- yeh can't go off terHogwarts not knowin'."

t myst'ry, parts of it...."
th a person called -- but it's incredibleyeh don't know his name, everyone in our world knows --"





zard who went... bad. As bad as youcould go. Worse. Worse than worse. His name was..."


this -- this wizard, about twenty yearsago now, started lookin' fer followers. Got 'em, too -- some wereafraid, some just wanted a bit o' his power, 'cause he was gettin'himself power, all right. Dark days, Harry. Didn't know who ter trust,didn't dare get friendly with strange wizards or witches... terriblethings happened. He was takin' over. 'Course, some stood up to him --an' he killed 'em. Horribly. One o' the only safe places left wasHogwarts. Reckon Dumbledore's the only one You-Know-Who was afraid of.Didn't dare try takin' the school, not jus' then, anyway.
n their day! Suppose the myst'ry is whyYou-Know-Who never tried to get 'em on his side before... probably knewthey were too close ter Dumbledore ter want anythin' ter do with theDark Side.
s, he turned up in the village whereyou was all living, on Halloween ten years ago. You was just a year old.He came ter yer house an' -- an' --"
oghorn.
nyway..."
ou, too. Wanted ter make a clean job ofit, I suppose, or maybe he just liked killin' by then. But he couldn't


h get when a Powerful, evil curse touchesyeh -- took care of yer mum an' dad an' yer house, even -- but it didn'twork on you, an' that's why yer famous, Harry. No one ever lived afterhe decided ter kill 'em, no one except you, an' he'd killed some o' thebest witches an' wizards of the age -- the McKinnons, the Bones, thePrewetts -- an' you was only a baby, an' you lived."
the blinding flash of green light, moreclearly than he had ever remembered it before -- and he rememberedsomething else, for the first time in his life: a high, cold, cruellaugh.


here. Uncle Vernon certainly seemed tohave got back his courage. He was glaring at Hagrid and his fists wereclenched.
ing a good beating wouldn't have cured-- and as for all this about your parents, well, they were weirdos, nodenying it, and the world's better off without them in my opinion --asked for all they got, getting mixed up with these wizarding types --just what I expected, always knew they'd come to a sticky end --"
. Pointing this at Uncle Vernon like asword, he said, "I'm warning you, Dursley -I'm warning you -- one moreword... "
d again; he flattened himself against thewall and fell silent.
gged right down to the floor.




amous. That's the biggest myst'ry, see...he was gettin' more an' more powerful -- why'd he go?
ay he's still out there, bidin' histime, like, but I don' believe it. People who was on his side came backter ours. Some of 'em came outta kinda trances. Don~ reckon theycould've done if he was comin' back.
omethin' about you finished him, Harry.There was somethin' goin' on that night he hadn't counted on -- I dunnowhat it was, no one does -- but somethin' about you stumped him, allright."
ased and proud, felt quite sure there hadbeen a horrible mistake. A wizard? Him? How could he possibly be? He'dspent his life being clouted by Dudley, and bullied by Aunt Petunia andUncle Vernon; if he was really a wizard, why hadn't they been turnedinto warty toads every time they'd tried to lock him in his cupboard? Ifhe'd once defeated the greatest sorcerer in the world, how come Dudleyhad always been able to kick him around like a football?



unt and uncle furious with him hadhappened when he, Harry, had been upset or angry... chased by Dudley'sgang, he had somehow found himself out of their reach... dreading goingto school with that ridiculous haircut, he'd managed to make it growback... and the very last time Dudley had hit him, hadn't he got his






or it. I've read those letters and he needsall sorts of rubbish -- spell books and wands and --"
tter' s son goin' ter Hogwarts! Yer mad.His name's been down ever since he was born. He's off ter the finestschool of witchcraft and wizardry in the world. Seven years there and hewon't know himself. He'll be with youngsters of his own sort, fer achange, an' he'll be under the greatest headmaster Hogwarts ever hadAlbus Dumbled--"

thundered, "- INSULT- ALBUS- DUMBLEDORE-IN- FRONT- OF- ME!"
et light, a sound like a firecracker, asharp squeal, and the next second, Dudley was dancing on the spot withhis hands clasped over his fat bottom, howling in pain. When he turnedhis back on them, Harry saw a curly pig's tail poking through a hole inhis trousers.
look at Hagrid and slammed the doorbehind them.



pig, but I suppose he was so much likea pig anyway there wasn't much left ter do."

ter do magic, strictly speakin'. I wasallowed ter do a bit ter follow yeh an' get yer letters to yeh an' stuff-- one o' the reasons I was so keen ter take on the job

d year. They snapped me wand in half an'everything. But Dumbledore let me stay on as gamekeeper. Great man,Dumbledore." "Why were you expelled?"
et all yer books an' that."

ormice in one o' the pockets."


t.
to a school for wizards. When I openmy eyes I'll be at home in my cupboard."

open his eyes. It had been such a good





rid himself was asleep on the collapsedsofa, and there was an owl rapping its claw on the window, a newspaperheld in its beak.
ent straight to the window and jerked itopen. The owl swooped in and dropped the newspaper on top of Hagrid, whodidn't wake up. The owl then fluttered onto the floor and began toattack Hagrid's coat.

vaging the coat.



othing but pockets -- bunches ofkeys, slug pellets, balls of string, peppermint humbugs, teabags...finally, Harry pulled out a handful of strange-looking coins.



into a small leather pouch tied to it. Thenhe flew off through the open window.




de him feel as though the happy ballooninside him had got a puncture.


earn magic."
didn't leave yeh anything?"

ve a sausage, they're not bad cold -- an' Iwouldn' say no teh a bit o' yer birthday cake, neither."




gotts is the safest place in the world feranything yeh want ter keep safe -- 'cept maybe Hogwarts. As a matter o'fact, I gotta visit Gringotts anyway. Fer Dumbledore. Hogwartsbusiness." Hagrid drew himself up proudly. "He usually gets me ter doimportant stuff fer him. Fetchin' you gettin' things from Gringotts --knows he can trust me, see.



ght. The boat Uncle Vernon had hired wasstill there, with a lot of water in the bottom after the storm.




er -- er -- speed things up a bit, wouldyeh mind not mentionin' it at Hogwarts?"
ed it twice on the side of the boat, andthey sped off toward land.

guardin' the highsecurity vaults. Andthen yeh gotta find yer way -- Gringotts is hundreds of miles underLondon, see. Deep under the Underground. Yeh'd die of hunger tryin' terget out, even if yeh did manage ter get yer hands on summat."
d from Uncle Vernon that people liked tobe left alone while they did this, but it was very difficult, he'd neverhad so many questions in his life.





one. So he pelts Dumbledore with owlsevery morning, askin' fer advice."

wn the country."

one."
clambered up the stone steps onto thestreet.
t blame them. Not only was Hagrid twice astall as anyone else, he kept pointing at perfectly ordinary things likeparking meters and saying loudly, "See that, Harry? Things these Mugglesdream up, eh?"
?"



nderstand "Muggle money," as hecalled it, gave the bills to Harry so he could buy their tickets.
a canary-yellow circus tent.
of his pocket.

































ously not used to getting there in anordinary way. He got stuck in the ticket barrier on the Underground, andcomplained loudly that the seats were too small and the trains too slow.
that led up to a bustling road linedwith shops.
ey passed book shops and music stores,hamburger restaurants and cinemas, but nowhere that looked as if itcould sell you a magic wand. This was just an ordinary street full ofordinary people. Could there really be piles of wizard gold buried milesbeneath them? Were there really shops that sold spell books andbroomsticks? Might this not all be some huge joke that the Dursleys hadcooked up? If Harry hadn't known that the Dursleys had no sense ofhumor, he might have thought so; yet somehow, even though everythingHagrid had told him so far was unbelievable, Harry couldn't helptrusting him.




from the big book shop on one side to therecord shop on the other as if they couldn't see the Leaky Cauldron atall. In fact, Harry had the most peculiar feeling that only he andHagrid could see it. Before he could mention this, Hagrid had steeredhim inside.
iny glasses of sherry. One of them wassmoking a long pipe. A little man in a top hat was talking to the oldbartender, who was quite bald and looked like a toothless walnut. Thelow buzz of chatter stopped when they walked in. Everyone seemed to knowHagrid; they waved and smiled at him, and the bartender reached for aglass, saying, "The usual, Hagrid?"
making Harry's knees buckle.





n it without realizing it had gone out.Hagrid was beaming.
everyone in the Leaky Cauldron.






d to me once in a shop."
!" Harry shook hands again and again --Doris Crockford kept coming back for more.

s."
I am to meet you."

bout it. "N-not that you n-need it, eh,P-P-Potter?" He laughed nervously. "You'll be g-getting all yourequipment, I suppose? I've g-got to p-pick up a new b-book on vampires,m-myself." He looked terrified at the very thought.
et away from them all. At last, Hagridmanaged to make himself heard over the babble.

small, walled courtyard, where there wasnothing but a trash can and a few weeds.







t vampires in the Black Forest, and therewas a nasty bit o' trouble with a hag -- never been the same since.Scared of the students, scared of his own subject now, where's meumbrella?"
he trash can.


ider and wider -- a second later theywere facing an archway large enough even for Hagrid, an archway onto acobbled street that twisted and turned out of sight.

lder and saw the archway shrink instantlyback into solid wall.
per, Brass, Pewter, Silver -- Self-Stirring-- Collapsible, said a sign hanging over them.

e street, trying to look at everything atonce: the shops, the things outside them, the people doing theirshopping. A plump woman outside an Apothecary was shaking her head asthey passed, saying, "Dragon liver, seventeen Sickles an ounce, they'remad...."


Barn, Brown, and Snowy. Several boys ofabout Harry's age had their noses pressed against a window withbroomsticks in it. "Look," Harry heard one of them say, "the new NimbusTwo Thousand -- fastest ever --" There were shops selling robes, shopsselling telescopes and strange silver instruments Harry had never seenbefore, windows stacked with barrels of bat spleens and eels' eyes,tottering piles of spell books, quills, and rolls of parchment, potionbottles, globes of the moon....

burnished bronze doors, wearing auniform of scarlet and gold, was -
goblin was about a head shorter than Harry.He had a swarthy, clever face, a pointed beard and, Harry noticed, verylong fingers and feet. He bowed as they walked inside. Now they werefacing a second pair of doors, silver this time, with words engravedupon them:












ibbling in large ledgers, weighingcoins in brass scales, examining precious stones through eyeglasses.There were too many doors to count leading off the hall, and yet moregoblins were showing people in and out of these. Hagrid and Harry madefor the counter.
e."

g a handful of moldy dog biscuitsover the goblin's book of numbers. The goblin wrinkled his nose. Harrywatched the goblin on their right weighing a pile of rubies as big asglowing coals.



s chest. "It's about the YouKnow-What invault seven hundred and thirteen."

riphook!"
, he and Harry followed Griphook towardone of the doors leading off the hall.

d me. More'n my job's worth ter tell yehthat."


n a narrow stone passageway lit withflaming torches. It sloped steeply downward and there were littlerailway tracks on the floor. Griphook whistled and a small cart camehurtling up the tracks toward them. They climbed in -- Hagrid with somedifficulty -- and were off.
right, left, middle fork, right, left,but it was impossible. The rattling cart seemed to know its own way,because Griphook wasn't steering.
saw a burst of fire at the end of apassage and twisted around to see if it was a dragon, but too late - -they plunged even deeper, passing an underground lake where hugestalactites and stalagmites grew from the ceiling and floor.
alagmite and a stalactite?"
be sick."
grid got out and had to lean against thewall to stop his knees from trembling.
Inside were mounds of gold coins. Columnsof silver. Heaps of little bronze Knuts.

rom him faster than blinking. How often hadthey complained how much Harry cost them to keep? And all the time therehad been a small fortune belonging to him, buried deep under London.




ple o' terms, we'll keep the rest safefor yeh." He turned to Griphook. "Vault seven hundred and thirteen now,please, and can we go more slowly?"

round tight corners. They wentrattling over an underground ravine, and Harry leaned over the side totry to see what was down at the dark bottom, but Hagrid groaned andpulled him back by the scruff of his neck.

it simply melted away.
" said Griphook.


d forward eagerly, expecting to see fabulousjewels at the very least -- but at first he thought it was empty. Thenhe noticed a grubby little package wrapped up in brown paper lying onthe floor. Hagrid picked it up and tucked it deep inside his coat. Harrylonged to know what it was, but knew better than to ask.
uth shut," said Hagrid.
re to run first now that he had a bagfull of money. He didn't have to know how many Galleons there were to apound to know that he was holding more money than he'd had in his wholelife -- more money than even Dudley had ever had.
"Listen, Harry, would yeh mind if I


bit sick, so Harry entered MadamMalkin's shop alone, feeling nervous.

g fitted up just now, in fact. "
itch pinned up his long black robes. MadamMalkin stood Harry on a stool next to him) slipped a long robe over hishead, and began to pin it to the right length.


had a bored, drawling voice. "ThenI'm going to drag them off to took at racing brooms. I don't see whyfirst years can't have their own. I think I'll bully father into gettingme one and I'll smuggle it in somehow."





ow what house you'll be in yet?"

mily have been -- imagine being inHufflepuff, I think I'd leave, wouldn't you?" "Mmm," said Harry, wishinghe could say something a bit more interesting.


g there, grinning at Harry and pointingat two large ice creams to show he couldn't come in.



d then he gets drunk, tries to do magic,and ends up setting fire to his bed."





ever been brought up to know our ways. Someof them have never even heard of Hogwarts until they get the letter,imagine. I think they should keep it in the old wizarding families.What's your surname, anyway?"
r an excuse to stop talking to the boy,hopped down from the footstool.



opped nuts).

a bottle of ink that changed color as youwrote. When they had left the shop, he said, "Hagrid, what's Quidditch?"



rents are wizardin' folk. You saw whateveryone in the Leaky Cauldron was like when they saw yeh. Anyway, whatdoes he know about it, some o' the best I ever saw were the only oneswith magic in 'em in a long line 0' Muggles -- look at yer mum! Lookwhat she had fer a sister!"

itch -- played up in the air onbroomsticks and there's four balls -- sorta hard ter explain the rules.""And what are Slytherin and Hufflepuff?"


t bad who wasn't in Slytherin.You-Know-Who was one."




to the ceiling with books as large aspaving stones bound in leather; books the size of postage stamps incovers of silk; books full of peculiar symbols and a few books withnothing in them at all. Even Dudley, who never read anything, would havebeen wild to get his hands on some of these. Hagrid almost had to dragHarry away from Curses and Countercurses (Bewitch Your Friends andBefuddle Your Enemies with the Latest Revenges: Hair Loss, Jelly-Legs,Tongue- Tying and Much, Much More) by Professor Vindictus Viridian.

special circumstances," said Hagrid. "An'anyway, yeh couldn' work any of them curses yet, yeh'll need a lot morestudy before yeh get ter that level."
got a nice set of scales for weighingpotion ingredients and a collapsible brass telescope. Then they visitedthe Apothecary, which was fascinating enough to make up for its horriblesmell, a mixture of bad eggs and rotted cabbages. Barrels of slimy stuffstood on the floor; jars of herbs, dried roots, and bright powders linedthe walls; bundles of feathers, strings of fangs, and snarled claws hungfrom the ceiling. While Hagrid asked the man behind the counter for asupply of some basic potion ingredients for Harry, Harry himselfexamined silver unicorn horns at twenty-one Galleons each and minuscule,glittery-black beetle eyes (five Knuts a scoop).




rs ago, yeh'd be laughed at - an' I don'like cats, they make me sneeze. I'll get yer an owl. All the kids want



ickering, jewel-bright eyes. Harry nowcarried a large cage that held a beautiful snowy owl, fast asleep withher head under her wing. He couldn't stop stammering his thanks,sounding just like Professor Quirrell.
Just Ollivanders left now - only place ferwands, Ollivanders, and yeh gotta have the best wand."

ine Wands since 382 B.C. A single wand layon a faded purple cushion in the dusty window.
empty except for a single, spindly chairthat Hagrid sat on to wait. Harry felt strangely as though he hadentered a very strict library; he swallowed a lot of new questions thathad just occurred to him and looked instead at the thousands of narrowboxes piled neatly right up to the ceiling. For some reason, the back ofhis neck prickled. The very dust and silence in here seemed to tinglewith some secret magic.
loud crunching noise and he got quicklyoff the spindly chair.
shop.

ion. "You have your mother's eyes. Itseems only yesterday she was in here herself, buying her first wand. Tenand a quarter inches long, swishy, made of willow. Nice wand for charmwork."




and excellent for transfiguration. Well, Isay your father favored it -- it's really the wand that chooses thewizard, of course."
reflected in those misty eyes.


erful wand, very powerful, and inthe wrong hands... well, if I'd known what that wand was going out intothe world to do...."



er, suddenly stern.
added brightly.

ke.
pulled a long tape measure with silvermarkings out of his pocket. "Which is your wand arm?"



der to floor, knee to armpit and roundhis head. As he measured, he said, "Every Ollivander wand has a core ofa powerful magical substance, Mr. Potter. We use unicorn hairs, phoenixtail feathers, and the heartstrings of dragons. No two Ollivander wandsare the same, just as no two unicorns, dragons, or phoenixes are quitethe same. And of course, you will never get such good results withanother wizard's wand."
is on its own. Mr. Ollivander wasflitting around the shelves, taking down boxes.
ter. Try this one. Beechwood and dragonheartstring. Nine inches. Nice and flexible. just take it and give it awave."
f his hand almost at once.



as mounting higher and higher on thespindly chair, but the more wands Mr. Ollivander pulled from theshelves, the happier he seemed to become.
yes, why not -- unusual combination --holly and phoenix feather, eleven inches, nice and supple."
ht it swishing down through the dusty airand a stream of red and gold sparks shot from the end like a firework,throwing dancing spots of light on to the walls. Hagrid whooped and


ious... how very curious... "
ious..


whose tail feather is in your wand, gaveanother feather -- just one other. It is very curious indeed that youshould be destined for this wand when its brother why, its brother gaveyou that scar."

izard, remember.... I think we must expectgreat things from you, Mr. Potter.... After all, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named did great things -- terrible, yes, but great."
wand, and Mr. Ollivander bowed them from hisshop.
back through the wall, back throughthe Leaky Cauldron, now empty. Harry didn't speak at all as they walkeddown the road; he didn't even notice how much people were gawking atthem on the Underground, laden as they were with all their funny-shapedpackages, with the snowy owl asleep in its cage on Harry's lap. Upanother escalator, out into Paddington station; Harry only realizedwhere they were when Hagrid tapped him on the shoulder.

. Everything looked so strange, somehow.



ed his hamburger, trying to find thewords.
irrell, Mr. Ollivander... but I don't knowanything about magic at all. How can they expect great things? I'mfamous and I can't even remember what I'm famous for. I don't know whathappened when Vol-, sorry -- I mean, the night my parents died."

l be just fine. just be yerself. I know it'shard. Yeh've been singled out, an' that's always hard. But yeh'll have agreat time at Hogwarts -- I did -- still do, 'smatter of fact."
lope.
ny problems with the Dursleys, send me aletter with yer owl, she'll know where to find me.... See yeh soon,Harry."
in his seat and pressed his nose againstthe window, but he blinked and Hagrid had gone.


stay in the same room, while Aunt Petuniaand Uncle Vernon didn't shut Harry in his cupboard, force him to doanything, or shout at him -- in fact, they didn't speak to him at all.Half terrified, half furious, they acted as though any chair with Harryin it were empty. Although this was an improvement in many ways, it didbecome a bit depressing after a while.


d found in A History of Magic. His schoolbooks were very interesting. He lay on his bed reading late into thenight, Hedwig swooping in and out of the open window as she pleased. Itwas lucky that Aunt Petunia didn't come in to vacuum anymore, becauseHedwig kept bringing back dead mice. Every night before he went tosleep, Harry ticked off another day on the piece of paper he had pinnedto the wall, counting down to September the first.
Cross station the next day, so he wentdown to the living room where they were watching a quiz show ontelevision. He cleared his throat to let them know he was there, andDudley screamed and ran from the room.











him out of his pocket.








'll take you to King's Cross. We're going upto London tomorrow anyway, or I wouldn't bother."

goes to Smeltings."
ot up and pulled on his jeans becausehe didn't want to walk into the station in his wizard's robes -- he'dchange on the train. He checked his Hogwarts list yet again to make surehe had everything he needed, saw that Hedwig was shut safely in hercage, and then paced the room, waiting for the Dursleys to get up. Twohours later, Harry's huge, heavy trunk had been loaded into theDursleys' car, Aunt Petunia had talked Dudley into sitting next toHarry, and they had set off.
it into the station for him. Harry thoughtthis was strangely kind until Uncle Vernon stopped dead, facing theplatforms with a nasty grin on his face.
ddle, but they don't seem to have built ityet, do they?"
c number ten over the one next to it, and



turned and saw the Dursleys drive away.All three of them were laughing. Harry's mouth went rather dry. What onearth was he going to do? He was starting to attract a lot of funnylooks, because of Hedwig. He'd have to ask someone.
ever heard of Hogwarts and when Harrycouldn't even tell him what part of the country it was in, he started toget annoyed, as though Harry was being stupid on purpose. Gettingdesperate, Harry asked for the train that left at eleven o'clock, butthe guard said there wasn't one. In the end the guard strode away,muttering about time wasters. Harry was now trying hard not to panic.According to the large clock over the arrivals board, he had ten minutesleft to get on the train to Hogwarts and he had no idea how to do it; hewas stranded in the middle of a station with a trunk he could hardlylift, a pocket full of wizard money, and a large owl.
eft to get into Diagon Alley. Hewondered if he should get out his wand and start tapping the ticketinspector's stand between platforms nine and ten.
aying.

air. Each of them was pushing a trunk likeHarry's in front of him -- and they had an owl.
ar what they were saying.

I go... "




blink in case he missed it -- but just asthe boy reached the dividing barrier between the two platforms, a largecrowd of tourists came swarming in front of him and by the time the lastbackpack had cleared away, the boy had vanished.

ll I'm George?"

e must have done so, because a second later,he had gone -- but how had he done it?
uddenly, he wasn't anywhere.



hands and feet, and a long nose.


and ten. Don't stop and don't be scaredyou'll crash into it, that's very important. Best do it at a bit of arun if you're nervous. Go on, go now before Ron."




more quickly. He was going to smashright into that barrier and then he'd be in trouble -- leaning forwardon his cart, he broke into a heavy run -- the barrier was coming nearerand nearer -- he wouldn't be able to stop -- the cart was out of control-- he was a foot away -- he closed his eyes ready for the crash --
o a platform packed with people. A signoverhead said Hogwarts Express, eleven O'clock. Harry looked behind himand saw a wrought-iron archway where the barrier had been, with thewords Platform Nine and Three-Quarters on it, He had done it.
here and there between their legs. Owlshooted to one another in a disgruntled sort of way over the babble andthe scraping of heavy trunks.
their families, some fighting over seats.Harry pushed his cart off down the platform in search of an empty seat.He passed a round-faced boy who was saying, "Gran, I've lost my toadagain."



ng inside poked out a long, hairy leg.
put Hedwig inside first and then startedto shove and heave his trunk toward the train door. He tried to lift itup the steps but could hardly raise one end and twice he dropped itpainfully on his foot.














ating in through the train's open door.



tform and hear what they were saying. Theirmother had just taken out her handkerchief.

ose.







es, and Harry noticed a shiny silver badgeon his chest with the letter P on it.
es --"
e said something, we had no idea."






me an owl when you get there."

blown up a toilet or --"






re his mother had rubbed it.







y, Fred? How do you know?"

the platform."


day at school."




ndow for her to kiss them good-bye, andtheir younger sister began to cry.




ng, running to keep up with the trainuntil it gathered too much speed, then she fell back and waved.
the window. Harry felt a great leap ofexcitement. He didn't know what he was going to but it had to be betterthan what he was leaving behind.


dow, pretending he hadn't looked. Harry sawhe still had a black mark on his nose.




our brother. See you later, then.





-- you know..."






ed what he was doing, he looked quickly outof the window again.

er talk about him."

about.

brothers."


rts. You could say I've got a lot to live upto. Bill and Charlie have already left -- Bill was head boy and Charliewas captain of Quidditch. Now Percy's a prefect. Fred and George messaround a lot, but they still get really good marks and everyone thinksthey're really funny. Everyone expects me to do as well as the others,but if I do, it's no big deal, because they did it first. You never getanything new, either, with five brothers. I've got Bill's old robes,Charlie's old wand, and Percy's old rat."

g made a prefect, but they couldn't aff-- I mean, I got Scabbers instead."
he window.
er had any money in his life until amonth ago, and he told Ron so, all about having to wear Dudley's oldclothes and never getting proper birthday presents. This seemed to cheerRon up.
ldemort"


of all people --"
t. See what I mean? I've got loads tolearn.... I bet," he added, voicing for the first time something thathad been worrying him a lot lately, "I bet I'm the worst in the class."



elds full of cows and sheep. They werequiet for a time, watching the fields and lanes flick past.
oman slid back their door and said,"Anything off the cart, dears?"
d that he'd brought sandwiches. Harry wentout into the corridor.
d and silver he was ready to buy as manyMars Bars as he could carry -- but the woman didn't have Mars Bars. Whatshe did have were Bettie Bott's Every Flavor Beans, Drooble's BestBlowing Gum, Chocolate Frogs. Pumpkin Pasties, Cauldron Cakes, LicoriceWands, and a number of other strange things Harry had never seen in hislife. Not wanting to miss anything, he got some of everything and paidthe woman eleven silver Sickles and seven bronze Knuts.



of them apart and said, "She alwaysforgets I don't like corned beef."

w, with five of us."
hare it with. It was a nice feeling,sitting there with Ron, eating their way through all Harry's pasties,cakes, and candies (the sandwiches lay forgotten).


re they?" He was starting to feel thatnothing would surprise him.


famous witches and wizards. I've got aboutfive hundred, but I haven't got Agrippa or Ptolemy."
glasses, had a long, crooked nose, andflowing silver hair, beard, and mustache. Underneath the picture was thename Albus Dumbledore.

thanks



eat of the dark wizard Grindelwald in1945, for the discovery of the twelve uses of dragon's blood, and hiswork on alchemy with his partner, Nicolas Flamel. Professor Dumbledoreenjoys chamber music and tenpin bowling.


gain and I've got about six of her... do youwant it? You can start collecting."





as more interested in eating the frogs thanlooking at the Famous Witches and Wizards cards, but Harry couldn't keephis eyes off them. Soon he had not only Dumbledore and Morgana, butHengist of Woodcroft, Alberic Grunnion, Circe, Paracelsus, and Merlin.He finally tore his eyes away from the druidess Cliodna, who wasscratching her nose, to open a bag of Bertie Bott's Every Flavor Beans.
lavor -- you know, you get all theordinary ones like chocolate and peppermint and mar- malade, but thenyou can get spinach and liver and tripe. George reckons he had a booger-flavored one once."


curry, grass, coffee, sardine, and waseven brave enough to nibble the end off a funny gray one Ron wouldn'ttouch, which turned out to be pepper.
ere woods, twisting rivers, and dark greenhills.
rm nine and threequarters came in. Helooked tearful.








Mind you, I brought Scabbers, so I can'ttalk."

yellow yesterday to make him moreinteresting, but the spell didn't work. I'll show you, look..."
and something white was glinting at theend.

t this time he had a girl with him. She wasalready wearing her new Hogwarts robes.
brown hair, and rather large front teeth.
at the wand in his hand.








simple spells just for practice and it'sall worked for me. Nobody in my family's magic at all, it was ever sucha surprise when I got my letter, but I was ever so pleased, of course, Imean, it's the very best school of witchcraft there is, I've heard --I've learned all our course books by heart, of course, I just hope itwill be enough -- I'm Hermione Granger, by the way, who are you.

e books by heart either.


kground reading, and you're in ModernMagical History and The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts and GreatWizarding Events of the Twentieth Century.

ither of you know what house you'll be in?I've been asking around, and I hope I'm in Gryffindor, it sounds by farthe best; I hear Dumbledore himself was in it, but I suppose Ravenclawwouldn't be too bad.... Anyway, we'd better go and look for Neville'stoad. You two had better change, you know, I expect we'll be theresoon."

upid spell -- George gave it to me, bet heknew it was a dud."



't know what they'll say if I'm not. Idon't suppose Ravenclaw would be too bad, but imagine if they put me inSlytherin."


s mind off houses. "So what do youroldest brothers do now that they've left, anyway?"

. "Did you hear about
someone tried to rob a high securityvault."


rful Dark wizard to get round Gringotts,but they don't think they took anything, that's what's odd. 'Course,everyone gets scared when something like this happens in caseYou-Know-Who's behind it."
w-Who was mentioned. He supposed thiswas all part of entering the magical world, but it had been a lot morecomfortable saying "Voldemort" without worrying.





describing famous games he'd been towith his brothers and the broomstick he'd like to get if he had themoney. He was just taking Harry through the finer points of the gamewhen the compartment door slid open yet again, but it wasn't Neville thetoadless boy, or Hermione Granger this time.
n's robe shop. He was looking at Harry witha lot more interest than he'd shown back in Diagon Alley.
it's you, is it?"
mean. Standing on either side of the paleboy, they looked like bodyguards.
g. "And my name's Malfoy, Draco Malfoy."

ed hair, freckles, and more children thanthey can afford."
otter. You don't want to go making friendswith the wrong sort. I can help you there."



me way as your parents. They didn't knowwhat was good for them, either. You hang around with riffraff like the






bigger than him or Ron.
e."
touched Goyle, Goyle let out ahorrible yell.
be and Malfoy backed away as Goyle swungScabbers round and round, howling, and when Scabbets finally flew offand hit the window, all three of them disappeared at once. Perhaps theythought there were more rats lurking among the sweets, or perhaps they'dheard footsteps, because a second later, Hermione Granger had come in.
ers by his tail.
ve it -- he's gone back to sleep-"



ter You-Know-Who disappeared. Saidthey'd been bewitched. My dad doesn't believe it. He says Malfoy'sfather didn't need an excuse to go over to the Dark Side." He turned toHermione. "Can we help you with something?"


d he says we're nearly there. You haven'tbeen fighting, have you? You'll be in trouble before we even get there!"
nge?"
down the corridors," said Hermione in asniffy voice. "And you've got dirt on your nose, by the way, did youknow?"
tains and forests under a deep purplesky. The train did seem to be slowing down.
m, you could see his sneakers underneaththem.
our luggage on the train, it will be takento the school separately."
ir pockets with the last of the sweets andjoined the crowd thronging the corridor.
o a tiny, dark platform. Harry shivered inthe cold night air. Then a lamp came bobbing over the heads of thestudents, and Harry heard a familiar voice: "Firs' years! Firs' yearsover here! All right there, Harry?"


ark on either side of them that Harrythought there must be thick trees there. Nobody spoke much. Neville, theboy who kept losing his toad, sniffed once or twice.


bend here."

on the other side, its windows sparkling inthe starry sky, was a vast castle with many turrets and towers.
y the shore. Harry and Ron were followedinto their boat by Neville and Hermione. "Everyone in?" shouted Hagrid,who had a boat to himself. "Right then -- FORWARD!"
glass. Everyone was silent, staring up atthe great castle overhead. It towered over them as they sailed nearerand nearer to the cliff on which it stood.
ittle boats carried them through a curtainof ivy that hid a wide opening in the cliff face. They were carriedalong a dark tunnel, which seemed to be taking them right underneath thecastle, until they reached a kind of underground harbor, where theyclambered out onto rocks and pebbles.
them.
rock after Hagrid's lamp, coming out atlast onto smooth, damp grass right in the shadow of the castle.







very stern face and Harry's first thoughtwas that this was not someone to cross.


house in it. The stone walls were litwith flaming torches like the ones at Gringotts, the ceiling was toohigh to make out, and a magnificent marble staircase facing them led tothe upper floors.
reds of voices from a doorway to the right-the rest of the school must already be here -- but Professor McGonagallshowed the first years into a small, empty chamber off the hall. Theycrowded in, standing rather closer together than they would usually havedone, peering about nervously.
before you take your seats in the GreatHall, you will be sorted into your houses. The Sorting is a veryimportant ceremony because, while you are here, your house will besomething like your family within Hogwarts. You will have classes withthe rest of your house, sleep in your house dormitory, and spend freetime in your house common room.
noble history and each has producedoutstanding witches and wizards. While you are at Hogwarts, yourtriumphs will earn your house points, while any rulebreaking will losehouse points. At the end of the year, the house with the most points isawarded the house cup, a great honor. I hope each of you will be acredit to whichever house becomes yours.
you all smarten yourselves up as much as



s smudged nose. Harry nervously tried toflatten his hair.




c yet -- what on earth would he haveto do? He hadn't expected something like this the moment they arrived.He looked around anxiously and saw that everyone else looked terrified,too. No one was talking much except Hermione Granger, who was whisperingvery fast about all the spells she'd learned and wondering which oneshe'd need. Harry tried hard not to listen to her. He'd never been morenervous, never, not even when he'd had to take a school report home tothe Dursleys saying that he'd somehow turned his teacher's wig blue. Hekept his eyes fixed on the door. Any second now, Professor McGonagallwould come back and lead him to his doom.
med.

Pearly-white and slightly transparent,they glided across the room talking to one another and hardly glancingat the first years. They seemed to be arguing. What looked like a fatlittle monk was saying: "Forgive and forget, I say, we ought to give hima second chance --"
ou know, he's not really even a ghost -- Isay, what are you all doing here?"










, with Ron behind him, and they walked outof the chamber, back across the hall, and through a pair of double doorsinto the Great Hall.
s of candles that were floating in midairover four long tables, where the rest of the students were sitting.These tables were laid with glittering golden plates and goblets. At thetop of the hall was another long table where the teachers were sitting.Professor McGonagall led the first years up here, so that they came to ahalt in a line facing the other students, with the teachers behind them.The hundreds of faces staring at them looked like pale lanterns in theflickering candlelight. Dotted here and there among the students, theghosts shone misty silver. Mainly to avoid all the staring eyes, Harrylooked upward and saw a velvety black ceiling dotted with stars. Heheard
."


n to the heavens.
of the first years. On top of the stool sheput a pointed wizard's hat. This hat was patched and frayed andextremely dirty. Aunt Petunia wouldn't have let it in the house.
-- noticing that everyone in the hall wasnow staring at the hat, he stared at it, too. For a few seconds, therewas complete silence. Then the hat twitched. A rip near the brim openedwide like a mouth -- and the hat began to sing:
































and then became quite still again.
wrestling a troll."
ish they could have tried it onwithout everyone watching. The hat seemed to be asking rather alot;Harry didn't feel brave or quick-witted or any of it at the moment. Ifonly the hat had mentioned a house for people who felt a bit queasy,that would have been the one for him.



, Hannah!"
er her eyes, and sat down. A moments pause--

saw the ghost of the Fat Friar wavingmerrily at her.




ry as he joined them.
and the table on the far left explodedwith cheers; Harry could see Ron's twin brothers catcalling.
ard about Slytherin, but he thought theylooked like an unpleasant lot. He was starting to feel definitely sicknow. He remembered being picked for teams during gym at his old school.He had always been last to be chosen, not because he was no good, butbecause no one wanted Dudley to think they liked him.




to decide. "Finnigan, Seamus," thesandy-haired boy next to Harry in the line, sat on the stool for almosta whole minute before the hat declared him a Gryffindor.



wasn't chosen at all? What if he justsat there with the hat over his eyes for ages, until ProfessorMcGonagall jerked it off his head and said there had obviously been amistake and he'd better get back on the train?
stool. The hat took a long time to decidewith Neville. When it finally shouted, "GRYFFINDOR," Neville ran offstill wearing it, and had to jog back amid gales of laughter to give itto "MacDougal, Morag."
d his head when it screamed, "SLYTHERIN!"

"Patil" then "Perks, Sally-Anne" andthen, at last -- "Potter, Harry!"



get a good look at him. Next second he



mind either. There's talent, A my goodness,yes -- and a nice thirst to prove yourself, now that's interesting....So where shall I put you?"

in your head, and Slytherin will help youon the way to greatness, no doubt about that -- no? Well, if you're sure-- better be GRYFFINDOR!"
ard the Gryffindor table. He was sorelieved to have been chosen and not put in Slytherin, he hardly noticedthat he was getting the loudest cheer yet. Percy the Prefect got up andshook his hand vigorously, while the Weasley twins yelled, "We gotPotter! We got Potter!" Harry sat down opposite the ghost in the ruffhe'd seen earlier. The ghost patted his arm, giving Harry the sudden,horrible feeling he'd just plunged it into a bucket of ice-cold water.
ave him the thumbs up. Harry grinnedback. And there, in the center of the High Table, in a large gold chair,sat Albus Dumbledore. Harry recognized him at once from the card he'dgotten out of the Chocolate Frog on the train. Dumbledore's silver hairwas the only thing in the whole hall that shone as brightly as theghosts. Harry spotted Professor Quirtell, too, the nervous young manfrom the Leaky Cauldron. He was looking very peculiar in a large purpleturban.
Ron, joined Harry at the Gryffindor table."Turpin, Lisa," became a Ravenclaw and then it was Ron's turn. He waspale green by now. Harry crossed his fingers under the table and asecond later the hat had shouted, "GRYFFINDOR!"



a Slytherin. Professor McGonagall rolledup her scroll and took the Sorting Hat away.
asties seemed ages ago.
nothing could have pleased him more than tosee them all there.
say a few words. And here they are: Nitwit!Blubber! Oddment! Tweak!



s, Harry?"
ny things he liked to eat on one table:roast beef, roast chicken, pork chops and lamb chops, sausages, baconand steak, boiled potatoes, roast potatoes, fries, Yorkshire pudding,peas, carrots, gravy, ketchup, and, for some strange reason, pepperminthumbugs.
Dudley had always taken anythingthat Harry really wanted, even if It made him sick. Harry piled hisplate with a bit of everything except the peppermints and began to eat.It was all delicious.




does miss it. I don't think I've in troducedmyself? Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington at your service. Resident ghostof Gryffindor Tower."
k!"
amus Finnigan interrupted.


and fell onto his shoulder as if it was ona hinge. Someone had obviously tried to behead him, but not done itproperly. Looking pleased at the stunned looks on their faces, NearlyHeadless Nick flipped his head back onto his neck, coughed, and said,"So -- new Gryffindors! I hope you're going to help us win the housechampionship this year? Gryffindors have never gone so long withoutwinning. Slytherins have got the cup six years in a row! The BloodyBaron's becoming almost unbearable -- he's the Slytherin ghost."
yes, a gaunt face, and robes stainedwith silver blood. He was right next to Malfoy who, Harry was pleased tosee, didn't look too pleased with the seating arrangements.


them sparkling clean as before. A momentlater the desserts appeared. Blocks of ice cream in every flavor youcould think of, apple pies, treacle tarts, chocolate eclairs and jamdoughnuts, trifle, strawberries, Jell-O, rice pudding -- "



they were married. Bit of a nasty shockfor him."


gle for ages. My Great Uncle Algie kepttrying to catch me off my guard and force some magic out of me -- hepushed me off the end of Blackpool pier once, I nearly drowned -- butnothing happened until I was eight. Great Uncle Algie came round fordinner, and he was hanging me out of an upstairs window by the ankleswhen my Great Auntie Enid offered him a meringue and he accidentally letgo. But I bounced -- all the way down the garden and into the road. Theywere all really pleased, Gran was crying, she was so happy. And youshould have seen their faces when I got in here -- they thought I mightnot be magic enough to come, you see. Great Uncle Algie was so pleasedhe bought me my toad."
ight away, there's so much to learn, I'mparticularly interested in Transfiguration, you know, turning somethinginto something else, of course, it's supposed to be very difficult-";"You'll be starting small, just matches into needles and that sort ofthing -- ").

Professor Dumbledore. ProfessorQuirrell, in his absurd turban, was talking to a teacher with greasyblack hair, a hooked nose, and sallow skin.
eyes -- and a sharp, hot pain shot acrossthe scar on Harry's forehead.





m the teacher's look -- a feeling that hedidn't like Harry at all.

teaches Potions, but he doesn't wantto -- everyone knows he's after Quirrell's job. Knows an awful lot aboutthe Dark Arts, Snape."

silent.
es to give you.
older students would do well to rememberthat as well."

etween classes in the corridors.
house teams should contact Madam Hooch.
of bounds to everyone who does not wish todie a very painful death."




're not allowed to go somewhere -- theforest's full of dangerous beasts, everyone knows that. I do think hemight have told us prefects, at least."
other teachers' smiles had becomerather fixed.
den ribbon flew out of it, which rosehigh above the tables and twisted itself, snakelike, into words.













ng to a very slow funeral march.Dumbledore conducted their last few lines with his wand and when they



!"
p the marble staircase. Harry's legs werelike lead again, but only because he was so tired and full of food. Hewas too sleepy even to be surprised that the people in the portraitsalong the corridors whispered and pointed as they passed, or that twicePercy led them through doorways hidden behind sliding panels and hangingtapestries. They climbed more staircases, yawning and dragging theirfeet, and Harry was just wondering how much farther they had to go whenthey came to a sudden halt.
they started throwing themselves at him.
ourself"


egged in the air, clutching the walkingsticks.



im zooming away, rattling coats of armor ashe passed.
ne who can control him, he won't evenlisten to us prefects. Here we are."



hole in the wall. They all scrambledthrough it -- Neville needed a leg up -- and found themselves in theGryffindor common room, a cozy, round room full of squashy armchairs.
of a spiral staircase -- they wereobviously in one of the towers -- they found their beds at last: fivefour-posters hung with deep red, velvet curtains. Their trunks hadalready been brought up. Too tired to talk much, they pulled on theirpajamas and fell into bed.
my sheets."

Quirrell's turban, which kept talking tohim, telling him he must transfer to Slytherin at once, because it washis destiny. Harry told the turban he didn't want to be in Slytherin; itgot heavier and heavier; he tried to pull it off but it tightenedpainfully -- and there was Malfoy, laughing at him as he struggled withit -then Malfoy turned into the hook-nosed teacher, Snape, whose laughbecame high and cold -- there was a burst of green light and Harry woke,sweating and shaking.











classrooms stood on tiptoe to get a lookat him, or doubled back to pass him in the corridors again, staring.Harry wished they wouldn't, because he was trying to concentrate onfinding his way to classes.
some that led somewhere differenton a Friday; some with a vanishing step halfway up that you had toremember to jump. Then there were doors that wouldn't open unless youasked politely, or tickled them in exactly the right place, and doorsthat weren't really doors at all, but solid walls just pretending. Itwas also very hard to remember where anything was, because it all seemedto move around a lot. The people in the portraits kept going to visiteach other, and Harry was sure the coats of armor could walk.
a door you were trying to open. NearlyHeadless Nick was always happy to point new Gryffindors in the rightdirection, but Peeves the Poltergeist was worth two locked doors and atrick staircase if you met him when you were late for class. He woulddrop wastepaper baskets on your head, pull rugs from under your feet,pelt you with bits of chalk, or sneak up behind you, invisible, grabyour nose, and screech, "GOT YOUR CONK!"
o get on the wrong side of him on theirvery first morning. Filch found them trying to force their way through adoor that unluckily turned out to be the entrance to the out-of-boundscorridor on the third floor. He wouldn't believe they were lost, wassure they were trying to break into it on purpose, and was threateningto lock them in the dungeons when they were rescued by ProfessorQuirrell, who was passing.


ust like Filch's. She patrolled thecorridors alone. Break a rule in front of her, put just one toe out ofline, and she'd whisk off for Filch, who'd appear, wheezing, two secondslater. Filch knew the secret passageways of the school better thananyone (except perhaps the Weasley twins) and could pop up as suddenlyas any of the ghosts. The students all hated him, and it was the dearestambition of many to give Mrs. Norris a good kick.
to magic, as Harry quickly found out,than waving your wand and saying a few funny words.
names of different stars and themovements of the planets. Three times a week they went out to thegreenhouses behind the castle to study Herbology, with a dumpy littlewitch called Professor Sprout, where they learned how to take care ofall the strange plants and fungi, and found out what they were used for.
r Binns had been very old
aving his body behind him. Binns droned onand on while they scribbled down names and dates, and got Emetic theEvil and Uric the Oddball mixed up.
to see over his desk. At the start of theirfirst class he took the roll call, and when he reached Harry's name hegave an excited squeak and toppled out of sight.
cross. Strict and clever, she gave them atalking-to the moment they sat down in her first class.
d. "Anyone messing around in my classwill leave and not come back. You have been warned."
o get started, but soon realized they


cated notes, they were each given a matchand started trying to turn it into a needle. By the end of the lesson,only Hermione Granger had made any difference to her match; ProfessorMcGonagall showed the class how it had gone all silver and pointy andgave Hermione a rare smile.
's lessons turned out to be a bit ofa joke. His classroom smelled strongly of garlic, which everyone saidwas to ward off a vampire he'd met in Romania and was afraid would becoming back to get him one of these days. His turban, he told them, hadbeen given to him by an African prince as a thank-you for getting rid ofa troublesome zombie, but they weren't sure they believed this story.For one thing, when Seamus Finnigan asked eagerly to hear how Quirrellhad fought off the zombie, Quirrell went pink and started talking aboutthe weather; for another, they had noticed that a funny smell hungaround the turban, and the Weasley twins insisted that it was stuffedfull of garlic as well, so that Quirrell was protected wherever he went.
e from Muggle families and, like him, hadn'thad any idea that they were witches and wizards. There was so much tolearn that even people like Ron didn't have much of a head start.
at Hall for breakfast without getting lostonce.

favors them -- we'll be able to seeif it's true."
hadn't stopped her from giving them a hugepile of homework the day before.
ock on the first morning, when about ahundred owls had suddenly streamed into the Great Hall during breakfast,



f toast before going off to sleep in theowlery with the other school owls. This morning, however, she fluttereddown between the marmalade and the sugar bowl and dropped a note ontoHarry's plate. Harry tore it open at once. It said, in a very untidyscrawl:

three?


dwig off again.
to be the worst thing that had happened tohim so far.
of the first Potions lesson, he knew he'dbeen wrong. Snape didn't dislike Harry -- he hated him.
, and would have been quite creepy enoughwithout the pickled animals floating in glass jars all around the walls.
y's name.




, but they had none of Hagrid's warmth.They were cold and empty and made you think of dark tunnels.
y more than a whisper, butthey caught every word -- like Professor McGonagall, Snape had y caughtevery word -- like Professor McGonagall, Snape had the gift of keeping aclass silent without effort. "As there is little foolish wand-wavinghere, many of you will hardly believe this is magic. I don't expect youwill really understand the beauty of the softly simmering cauldron withits shimmering fumes, the delicate power of liquids that creep throughhuman veins, bewitching the mind, ensnaring the senses.... I can teachyou how to bottle fame, brew glory, even stopper death -- if you aren'tas big a bunch of dunderheads as I usually have to teach."
e Granger was on the edge of her seat andlooked desperate to start proving that she wasn't a dunderhead.
of wormwood?"
Hermione's hand had shot into the air.





ry didn't have the faintest idea what abezoar was. He tried not to look at Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, who wereshaking with laughter.



h his books at the Dursleys', but didSnape expect him to remember everything in One Thousand Magical Herbsand Fungi?





ing potion so powerful it is known asthe Draught of Living Death. A bezoar is a stone taken from the stomachof a goat and it will save you from most poisons. As for monkshood andwolfsbane, they are the same plant, which also goes by the name ofaconite. Well? Why aren't you all copying that down?"
be taken from Gryffindor House for yourcheek, Potter."
irs and set them to mixing up asimple potion to cure boils. He swept around in his long black cloak,watching them weigh dried nettles and crush snake fangs, criticizingalmost everyone except Malfoy, whom he seemed to like. He was justtelling everyone to look at the perfect way Malfoy had stewed his hornedslugs when clouds of acid green smoke and a loud hissing filled thedungeon. Neville had somehow managed to melt Seamus's cauldron into atwisted blob, and their potion was seeping across the stone floor,burning holes in people's shoes. Within seconds, the whole class wasstanding on their stools while Neville, who had been drenched in thepotion when the cauldron collapsed, moaned in pain as angry red boilssprang up all over his arms and legs.


u added the porcupine quills beforetaking the cauldron off the fire?"

een working next to Neville.
e got it wrong, did you? That's anotherpoint you've lost for Gryffindor."


ere low. He'd lost two points for Gryffindorin his very first week -- why did Snape hate him so much? "Cheer up,"said Ron, "Snape's always taking points off Fred and George. Can I comeand meet Hagrid with you?"
wooden house on the edge of theforbidden forest. A crossbow and a pair of galoshes were outside thefront door.
's voice rang out, saying, "Back, Fang-- back."



boiling on the open fire, and in the corner



cking his ears. Like Hagrid, Fang wasclearly not as fierce as he looked.
cakes onto a plate.
brothers away from the forest."
tended to be enjoying them as they toldHagrid all about their first -lessons. Fang rested his head on Harry'sknee and drooled all over his robes.

e I go up ter the school, she follows meeverywhere? Can't get rid of her -- Fitch puts her up to it."
e liked hardly any of the students.




s work with dragons, Harry picked up apiece of paper that was lying on the table under the tea cozy. It was acutting from the Daily Prophet:



Dark wizards or witches unknown.
been emptied the same day.
" said a Gringotts spokesgoblin thisafternoon.
mentioned the date.
ile we were there!"
ered him another rock cake. Harry read thestory again. The vault that was searched had in fact been emptiedearlier that same day. Hagrid had emptied vault seven hundred andthirteen, if you could call it emptying, taking out that grubby littlepackage. Had that been what the thieves were looking for?
y'd been too polite to refuse, Harrythought that none of the lessons he'd had so far had given him as muchto think about as tea with Hagrid. Had Hagrid collected that packagejust in time? Where was it now? And did Hagrid know something aboutSnape that he didn't want to tell Harry?


aco Malfoy.       Still, first-yearGryffindors only had Potions with the Slytherins, so they didn't have toput up with Malfoy much. Or at least, they didn't until they spotted anotice pinned up in the Gryffindor common room that made them all groan.Flying lessons would be starting on Thursday -- and Gryffindor andSlytherin     would be learning together.


front of Malfoy."

lways going on about how good heis at Quidditch, but I bet that's all talk."
the house Quidditch teams and told long,boastful stories that always seemed to end with him narrowly escapingMuggles in helicopters. He wasn't the only one, though: the way SeamusFinnigan told it, he'd spent most of his childhood zooming around thecountryside on his broomstick. Even Ron would tell anyone who'd listenabout the time he'd almost hit a hang glider on Charlie's old broom.Everyone from wizarding families talked about Quidditch constantly. Ronhad already had a big argument with Dean Thomas, who shared theirdormitory, about soccer. Ron couldn't see what was exciting about a gamewith only one ball where no one was allowed to fly. Harry had caught Ronprodding Dean's poster of West Ham soccer team, trying to make theplayers move.
e. Privately, Harry felt she'd hadgood reason, because Neville managed to have an extraordinary number ofaccidents even with both feet on the ground.
earn by heart out of a book -- not that shehadn't tried. At breakfast on Thursday she bored them all stupid withflying tips she'd gotten out of a library book called Quidditch Throughthe Ages. Neville was hanging on to her every word, desperate foranything that might help him hang on to his broomstick later, buteverybody else was very pleased when Hermione's lecture was interruptedby the arrival of the mail.
of course. Malfoy's eagle owl wasalways bringing him packages of sweets from home, which he openedgloatingly at the Slytherin table.



of white smoke.
you've forgotten to do. Look, you hold ittight like this and if it turns red -- oh..." His face fell, because theRemembrall had suddenly glowed scarlet,

table, snatched the Remembrall out of hishand.
McGonagall, who could spot troublequicker than any teacher in the school, was there in a flash.




to the grounds for their first flyinglesson. It was a clear, breezy day, and the grass rippled under theirfeet as they marched down the sloping lawns toward a smooth, flat lawnon the opposite side of the grounds to the forbidden forest, whose treeswere swaying darkly in the distance.
Harry had heard Fred and George Weasleycomplain about the school brooms, saying that some of them started tovibrate if you flew too high, or always flew slightly to the left.








d simply rolled over on the ground, andNeville's hadn't moved at all. Perhaps brooms, like horses, could tellwhen you were afraid, thought Harry; there was a quaver in Neville'svoice that said only too clearly that he wanted to keep his feet on theground.
down the rows correcting their grips.Harry and Ron were delighted when she told Malfoy he'd been doing itwrong for years.
s steady, rise a few feet, and then comestraight back down by leaning forward slightly. On my whistle -- three-- two --"
whistle had touched Madam Hooch'slips.
twelve feet -- twenty feet. Harry saw hisscared white face look down at the ground falling away, saw him gasp,slip sideways off the broom and --
still rising higher and higher, andstarted to drift lazily toward the forbidden forest and out of sight.






are or you'll be out of Hogwarts beforeyou can say 'Quidditch.' Come on, dear."
round him.




you'd like fat little crybabies,Parvati."
g Longbottom's gran sent him."




lying, he could fly well. Hovering levelwith the topmost branches of an oak he called, "Come and get it,Potter!"




round and up, up he soared; air rushedthrough his hair, and his robes whipped out behind him -and in a rush offierce joy he realized he'd found something he could do without beingtaught -- this was easy, this was wonderful. He pulled his broomstick upa little to take it even higher, and heard screams and gasps of girlsback on the ground and an admiring whoop from Ron.

sneer, but looking worried.
t shot toward Malfay like a javelin. Malfoyonly just got out of the way in time; Harry made a sharp about-face andheld the broom steady. A few people below were clapping.


ack toward the ground.
rward and pointed his broom handle down-- next second he was gathering speed in a steep dive, racing the ball-- wind whistled in his ears, mingled with the screams of peoplewatching -- he stretched out his hand -- a foot from the ground hecaught it, just in time to pull his broom straight, and he toppledgently onto the grass with the Remembrall clutched safely in his fist.

is feet, trembling.



e you -- might have broken your neck --"




essor McGonagall's wake as she strode towardthe castle. He was going to be expelled, he just knew it. He wanted tosay something to defend himself, but there seemed to be something wrongwith his voice. Professor McGonagall was sweeping along without evenlooking at him; he had to jog to keep up. Now he'd done it. He hadn'teven lasted two weeks. He'd be packing his bags in ten minutes. Whatwould the Dursleys say when he turned up on the doorstep?
to him. She wrenched open doors and marchedalong corridors with Harry trotting miserably behind her. Maybe she wastaking him to Dumbledore. He thought of Hagrid, expelled but allowed tostay on as gamekeeper. Perhaps he could be Hagrid's assistant. Hisstomach twisted as he imagined it, watching Ron and the others becomingwizards, while he stumped around the grounds carrying Hagrid's bag.



onfused.
riously at Harry.



ting rude words on the blackboard.
t cursing. Professor McGonagall slammedthe door behind him and turned to face the two boys.



it. Was that your first time on abroomstick, Potter?"
ed, and some of the feeling started comingback to his legs.
ven scratch himself. Charlie Weasleycouldn't have done it."



ht -- speedy -- we'll have to get him adecent broom, Professor -- a Nimbus Two Thousand or a Cleansweep Seven,I'd say."
need a better team than last year.Flattened in that last match by Slytherin, I couldn't look Severus Snapein the face for weeks...."







ith Professor McGonagall. Ron had a piece ofsteak and kidney pie halfway to his mouth, but he'd forgotten all aboutit.
, said Harry, shoveling pie into hismouth. He felt particularly hungry after the excitement of theafternoon. "Wood told me."




nce Charlie left, but this year's team isgoing to be brilliant. You must be good, Harry, Wood was almost skippingwhen he told us."




abbe and Goyle.

said Harry coolly. There was of coursenothing at all little about Crabbe and Goyle, but as the High Table wasfull of teachers, neither of them could do more than crack theirknuckles and scowl.
no contact. What's the matter? Never heardof a wizard's duel before, I suppose?"



what do you mean, you're my second?"
old pie. Catching the look on Harry'sface, he added quickly, "But people only die in proper duels, you know,with real wizards. The most you and Malfoy'll be able to do is sendsparks at each other. Neither of you knows enough magic to do any realdamage. I bet he expected you to refuse, anyway."









r if you're caught, and you're bound to be.It's really very selfish of you."


ch later listening to Dean and Seamusfalling asleep (Neville wasn't back from the hospital wing). Ron hadspent all evening giving him advice such as "If he tries to curse you,you'd better dodge it, because I can't remember how to block them."There was a very good chance they were going to get caught by Filch orMrs. Norris, and Harry felt he was pushing his luck, breaking anotherschool rule today. On the other hand, Malfoys sneering face kept loomingup out of the darkness - this was his big chance to beat Malfoyface-to-face. He couldn't miss it.

al staircase, and into the Gryffindorcommon room. A few embers were still glowing in the fireplace, turningall the armchairs into hunched black shadows. They had almost reachedthe portrait hole when a voice spoke from the chair nearest them, "Ican't believe you're going to do this, Harry."







them like an angry goose.
e house cup, and you'll lose all thepoints I got from Professor McGonagall for knowing about SwitchingSpells."
tomorrow, you're so --"
back inside and found herself facing anempty painting. The Fat Lady had gone on a nighttime visit and Hermionewas locked out of Gryffindor tower.





I'll tell him the truth, that I was tryingto stop you, and you can back me up."






y awake as they crept nearer.
et in to bed."
gone off somewhere."



Baron's been past twice already."

told us about, and used it on you.
hissed at her to be quiet and beckonedthem all forward.
y expected to run into Filch or Mrs.Norris, but they were lucky. They sped up a staircase to the third floorand tiptoed toward the trophy room.
em. Cups, shields, plates, and statueswinked silver and gold in the darkness. They edged along the walls,keeping their eyes on the doors at either end of the room. Harry tookout his wand in case Malfoy leapt in and started at once. The minutescrept by.



eone speak -and it wasn't Malfoy.

im as quickly as possible; they scurriedsilently toward the door, away from Filch's voice. Neville's robes hadbarely whipped round the corner when they heard Filch enter the trophyroom.

of suits of armor. They could hear Filchgetting nearer. Neville suddenly let out a frightened squeak and brokeinto a run -he tripped, grabbed Ron around the waist, and the pair ofthem toppled right into a suit of armor.

Filch was following -- they swung around thedoorpost and galloped down one corridor then another, Harry in the lead,without any idea where they were or where they were going -- they rippedthrough a tapestry and found themselves in a hidden passageway, hurtledalong it and came out near their Charms classroom, which they knew wasmiles from the trophy room.
e was bent double, wheezing andspluttering.


t you -- Filch knew someone was going to





nd something came shooting out of aclassroom in front of them.





for your own good, you know."


nto a door -- and it was locked.
hey could hear footsteps, Filch running asfast as he could toward Peeves's shouts.
ra!"









y heard the sound of Peeves whooshingaway and Filch cursing in rage.
ville had been tugging on the sleeve ofHarry's bathrobe for the last minute. "What?"
htmare -- this was too much, on top ofeverything that had happened so far.
ird floor. And now they knew why it wasforbidden.
n ceiling and floor. It had three heads.Three pairs of rolling, mad eyes; three noses, twitching
ish fangs.
eren't already dead was that theirsudden appearance had taken it by surprise, but it was quickly gettingover that, there was no mistaking what those thunderous growls meant.



idor. Filch must have hurried off to lookfor them somewhere else, because they didn't see him anywhere, but theyhardly cared -- all they wanted to do was put as much space as possiblebetween them and that monster. They didn't stop running until theyreached the portrait of the Fat Lady on the seventh floor.
and their flushed, sweaty faces.
ed into the common room andcollapsed, trembling, into armchairs.
.
. "If any dog needs exercise, that onedoes."
do you?" she snapped. "Didn't you seewhat it was standing on.



ou don't mind, I'm going to bed."





e in the world for something you wanted tohide -- except perhaps Hogwarts.
thirteen was.


looking tired but perfectly cheerful.Indeed, by the next morning Harry and Ron thought that meeting thethree-headed dog had been an excellent adventure, and they were quitekeen to have another one. In the meantime, Harry filled Ron in about thepackage that seemed to have been moved from Gringotts to Hogwarts, andthey spent a lot of time wondering what could possibly need such heavyprotection. "It's either really valuable or really dangerous," said Ron."Or both," said Harry.
didn't have much chance of guessing whatit was without further clues.
pdoor. All Neville cared about was nevergoing near the dog again.
aw this as an added bonus. All they reallywanted now was a way of getting back at Malfoy, and to their greatdelight, just such a thing arrived in the mail about a week later.
thin package carried by six large screechowls. Harry was just as interested as everyone else to see what was inthis large parcel, and was amazed when the owls soared down and droppedit right in front of him, knocking his bacon to the floor. They hadhardly fluttered out of the way when another owl dropped a letter on topof the parcel.




or they'll all want one. Oliver Woodwill meet you tonight on the Quidditch field at seven o'clock for yourfirst training session.



halfway across the entrance hall theyfound the way upstairs barred by Crabbe and Goyle. Malfoy seized thepackage from Harry and felt it.
face. "You'll be in for it this time,Potter, first years aren't allowed them."

ome, Malfoy, a Comet Two Sixty?" Rongrinned at Harry. "Comets look flashy, but they're not in the sameleague as the Nimbus."
suppose you and your brothers have tosave up twig by twig."





l about the special circumstances,Potter. And what model is it?"
e. "And it's really thanks to Malfoy herethat I've got it," he added.
l, it's true," Harry chortled as theyreached the top of the marble staircase, "If he hadn't stolen Neville'sRemembrall I wouln't be on the team...."
m. Hermione was stomping up the stairs,looking disapprovingly at the package in Harry's hand.



itory where his new broomstick was lyingunder his bed, or straying off to the Quidditch field where he'd belearning to play that night. He bolted his dinner that evening withoutnoticing what he was eating, and then rushed upstairs with Ron to unwrapthe Nimbus Two Thousand at last.

, with a mahogany handle, it had a longtail of neat, straight twigs and Nimbus Two Thousand written in goldnear the top.
d. Held never been inside the stadiumbefore. Hundreds of seats were raised in stands around the field so thatthe spectators were high enough to see what was going on. At either end


sticks Muggle

What a feeling -- he swooped in and outof the goal posts and then sped up and down the field. The Nimbus TwoThousand turned wherever he wanted at his lightest touch.

m.
I'm just going to teach you the rulesthis evening, then you'll be joining team practice three times a week."

There are seven players on each side.Three of them are called Chasers."

get it through one of the hoops toscore a goal. Ten points every time the Quaffle goes through one of thehoops. Follow me?"
ort of like basketball on broomsticks withsix hoops, isn't it?"

to fly around our hoops and stop the otherteam from scoring."


he Quaffle. Okay, got that. So what arethey for?" He pointed at the three balls left inside the box.



ed that they seemed to be straining toescape the straps holding them inside the box.

it with the bat to stop it from breakinghis nose, and sent it zigzagging away into the air -- it zoomed aroundtheir heads and then shot at Wood, who dived on top of it and managed topin it to the ground.
"The Bludgers rocket around, trying toknock players off their brooms. That's why you have two Beaters on eachteam -- the Weasley twins are ours -- it's their job to protect theirside from the Bludgers and try and knock them toward the other team. So-- think you've got all that?"
Bludgers away from their team," Harryreeled off.


er of the team is the


y head open."
uman Bludgers themselves."
Bludgers, it was tiny, about the sizeof a large walnut. It was bright gold and had little fluttering silverwings.
to catch because it's so fast anddifficult to see. It's the Seeker's job to catch it. You've got to weavein and out of the Chasers, Beaters, Bludgers, and Quaffle to get itbefore the other team's Seeker, because whichever Seeker catches theSnitch wins his team an extra hundred and fifty points, so they
ch is caught, so it can go on for ages-- I think the record is three months, they had to keep bringing onsubstitutes so the players could get some sleep. "Well, that's it -- anyquestions?"
the problem.
s too dark, we might lose it. Let's tryyou out with a few of these."
p in the air, Wood throwing the golfballs as hard as he could in every direction for Harry to catch.
nd they couldn't carry on.
he castle. "I wouldn't be surprised if youturn out better than Charlie Weasley, and he could have played forEngland if he hadn't gone off chasing dragons."


of all his homework, but Harry could hardlybelieve it when he realized that he'd already been at Hogwarts twomonths. The castle felt more like home than Privet Drive ever had. Hislessons, too, were becoming more and more interesting now that they hadmastered the basics.
. Even better, Professor Flitwick announcedin Charms that he thought they were ready to start making objects fly,something they had all been dying to try since they'd seen him makeNeville's toad zoom around the classroom. Professor Flitwick put theclass into pairs to practice. Harry's partner was Seamus Finnigan (whichwas a relief, because Neville had been trying to catch his eye). Ron,however, was to be working with Hermione Granger. It was hard to tellwhether Ron or Hermione was angrier about this. She hadn't spoken toeither of them since the day Harry's broomstick had arrived.
hed on top of his pile of books asusual. "Swish and flick, remember, swish and flick. And saying the magicwords properly is very important, too -- never forget Wizard Baruffio,who said 's' instead of 'f' and found himself on the floor with abuffalo on his chest."
sending skyward just lay on thedesktop. Seamus got so impatient that he prodded it with his wand andset fire to it -- Harry had to put it out with his hat.


ce and long."






Harry as they pushed their way into thecrowded corridor, "she's a nightmare, honestly. "
ace -- and was startled to see that shewas in tears.


eat Hall for the Halloween feast,Harry and Ron overheard Parvati Patil telling her friend Lavender thatHermione was crying in the girls' bathroom and wanted to be left alone.Ron looked still more awkward at this, but a moment later they hadentered the Great Hall, where the Halloween decorations put Hermione outof their minds.
es in low black clouds, making thecandles in the pumpkins stutter. The feast appeared suddenly on thegolden plates, as it had at the start-of-term banquet.
, his turban askew and terror on his face.Everyone stared as he reached Professor Dumbledore's chair, slumpedagainst the table, and gasped, "Troll -- in the dungeons -- thought youought to know."

re's wand to bring silence.




e behind me, now. Make way, first yearscoming through! Excuse me, I'm a prefect!"

en joke."
rough a crowd of confused Hufflepuffs, Harrysuddenly grabbed Ron's arm.





and hurried off toward the girls'bathroom. They had just turned the corner when they heard quickfootsteps behind them.

m view.
"






oilet no one seems to clean.
- at the end of a passage to the left,something huge was moving toward them. They shrank into the shadows andwatched as it emerged into a patch of moonlight.
ke a boulder with its small bald headperched on top like a coconut. It had short legs thick as tree trunkswith flat, horny feet. The smell coming from it was incredible. It washolding a huge wooden club, which dragged along the floor because itsarms were so long.
ind, then slouched slowly into the room.


ne great leap, Harry managed to grab thekey, slam the door, and lock it.

hey heard something that made their heartsstop -- a high, petrified scream -- and it was coming from the chamberthey'd just chained up.





d back to the door and turned the key,fumbling in their panic. Harry pulled the door open and they ran inside.
roll was advancing on her, knocking thesinks off the walls as it went.
nst the wall.
de the noise. Its mean little eyes sawHarry. It hesitated, then made for him instead, lifting its club as itwent.
troll didn't even seem to notice the pipehitting its shoulder, but it heard the yell and paused again, turningits ugly snout toward Ron instead, giving Harry time to run around it.
ove, she was still flat against the wall,her mouth open with terror.
d Ron, who was nearest and had no way toescape.
anaged to fasten his arms around thetroll's neck from behind. The troll couldn't feel Harry hanging there,but even a troll will notice if you stick a long bit of wood up itsnose, and Harry's wand had still been in his hand when he'd jumped -- ithad gone straight up one of the troll's nostrils.
second, the troll was going to rip him



g to do he heard himself cry the first spellthat came into his head: "Wingardium Leviosa!"
- and dropped, with a sickening crack, ontoits owner's head. The troll swayed on the spot and then fell flat on itsface, with a thud that made the whole room tremble.
aised, staring at what he had done.



ay glue.


et they had been making, but of course,someone downstairs must have heard the crashes and the troll's roars. Amoment later, Professor McGonagall had come bursting into the room,closely followed by Snape, with Quirrell bringing up the rear. Quirrelltook one look at the troll, let out a faint whimper, and sat quicklydown on a toilet, clutching his heart.
r look so angry. Her lips were white.Hopes of winning fifty points for Gryffindor faded quickly from Harry'smind.
ooked at Ron, who was still standing withhis wand in the air. "You're lucky you weren't killed. Why aren't you in



down.




se I've read all about them."
e, I'd be dead now. Harry stuck his wandup its nose and Ron knocked it out with its own club. They didn't havetime to come and fetch anyone. It was about to finish me off when theyarrived."

foolish girl, how could you think oftackling a mountain troll on your own?"
rules, and here she was, pretendingshe had, to get them out of trouble. It was as if Snape had startedhanding out sweets.
ery disappointed in you. If you're not hurtat all, you'd better get off to Gryffindor tower. Students are finishingthe feast in their houses."





be informed of this. You may go."
a relief to be away from the smell of thetroll, quite apart from anything else.






owever, stood alone by the door, waitingfor them. There was a very embarrassed pause. Then, none of them lookingat each other, they all said "Thanks," and hurried off to get plates.
without ending up liking each other, andknocking out a twelve-foot mountain troll is one of them.


ay and the lake like chilled steel. Everymorning the ground was covered in frost. Hagrid could be seen from theupstairs windows defrosting broomsticks on the Quidditch field, bundledup in a long moleskin overcoat, rabbit fur gloves, and enormousbeaverskin boots.



ove up into second place in the housechampionship.
be kept, well, secret. But the newsthat he was playing Seeker had leaked out somehow, and Harry didn't knowwhich was worse -- people telling him he'd be brilliant or peopletelling him they'd be running around underneath him holding a mattress.
ugh all his homework without her, whatwith all the last-minute Quidditch practice Wood was making them do. Shehad also tent him Quidditch Through the Ages, which turned out to be avery interesting read.
had happened during a World Cupmatch in 1473; that Seekers were usually the smallest and fastestplayers, and that most serious Quidditch accidents seemed to happen tothem; that although people rarely died playing Quidditch, referees hadbeen known to vanish and turn up months later in the Sahara Desert.
e mountain troll, and she was much nicerfor it. The day before Harry's first Quidditch match the three of themwere out in the freezing courtyard during break, and she had conjuredthem up a bright blue fire that could be carried around in a jam jar.They were standing with their backs to it, getting warm, when Snapecrossed the yard. Harry noticed at once that Snape was limping. Harry,Ron, and Hermione moved closer together to block the fire from view;they were sure it wouldn't be allowed. Unfortunately, something abouttheir guilty faces caught Snape's eye. He limped over. He hadn't seenthe fire, but he seemed to be looking for a reason to tell them offanyway.


Gryffindor."


his leg?"

a window. Hermione was checking Harry andRon's Charms homework for them. She would never let them copy ("How willyou learn?"), but by asking her to read it through, they got the rightanswers anyway.
tomorrow. Why should he be afraid ofSnape? Getting up, he told Ron and Hermione he was going to ask Snape ifhe could have it.
ere other teachers listening.

de -- and a horrible scene met his eyes.
bloody and mangled. Filch was handingSnape bandages.
e?"










Halloween! That's where he was going whenwe saw him -- he's after whatever it's guarding! And Id bet mybroomstick he let that troll in, to make a diversion!"

bledore was keeping safe."
wouldn't put anything past Snape. Butwhat's he after? What's that dog guarding?"
couldn't sleep. He tried to empty his mind-- he needed to sleep, he had to, he had his first Quidditch match in afew hours -- but the expression on Snape's face when Harry had seen hisleg wasn't easy to forget.
sausages and the cheer ful chatter ofeveryone looking forward to a good Quidditch match.





by the other team."



udents had binoculars. The seats might beraised high in the air, but it was still difficult to see what was goingon sometimes.
or Harry, they had painted a large banner onone of the sheets Scabbers had ruined. It said Potter for President, andDean, who was good at drawing, had done a large Gryffindor lionunderneath. Then Hermione had performed a tricky little charm so thatthe paint flashed different colors.
tch robes (Slytherin would be playingin green).







I know it."






in her hand.
oticed that she seemed to be speakingparticularly to the Slytherin Captain, Marcus Flint, a sixth year. Harrythought Flint looked as if he had some troll blood in him. Out of thecorner of his eye he saw the fluttering banner high above, flashingPotter for President over the crowd. His heart skipped. He felt braver.



by Angelina Johnson of Gryffindor -- whatan excellent Chaser that girl is, and rather attractive, too --"


fessor McGonagall.
, last year only a reserve -- back toJohnson and -- no, the Slytherins have taken the Quaffle, SlytherinCaptain Marcus Flint gains the Quaffle and off he goes -- Flint flyinglike an eagle up there -- he's going to sc- no, stopped by an excellentmove by Gryffindor Keeper Wood and the Gryffindors take the Quaffle --that's Chaser Katie Bell of Gryffindor there, nice dive around Flint,off up the field and -- OUCH -- that must have hurt, hit in the back ofthe head by a Bludger -- Quaffle taken by the Slytherins -- that'sAdrian Pucey speeding off toward the goal posts, but he's blocked by asecond Bludger -- sent his way by Fred or George Weasley, can't tellwhich -- nice play by the Gryffindor Beater, anyway, and Johnson back inpossession of the Quaffle, a clear field ahead and off she goes -- she'sreally flying -- dodges a speeding Bludger -- the goal posts are ahead







isn't the same as bein' in thecrowd. No sign of the Snitch yet, eh?"

rd at the speck that was Harry.
was part of his and Wood's game plan.
before you have to be."
as back to staring around for the Snitch.Once he caught sight of a flash of gold, but it was just a reflectionfrom one of the Weasleys' wristwatches, and once a Bludger decided tocome pelting his way, more like a cannonball than anything, but Harrydodged it and Fred Weasley came chasing after it.

Chaser Bell, and speeds toward the --wait a moment -- was that the Snitch?"




ker Terence Higgs had seen it, too. Neckand neck they hurtled toward the Snitch -all the Chasers seemed to haveforgotten what they were supposed to be doing as they hung in midair towatch.
- - he put on an extra spurt of speed --
and Harry's broom spun off course, Harryholding on for dear life.

in all the confusion, of course, theGolden Snitch had disappeared from sight again.













re, so a penalty to Gryffindor, taken bySpinner, who puts it away, no trouble, and we continue play, Gryffindorstill in possession."
ed. His broom gave a sudden, frighteninglurch. For a split second, he thought he was going to fall. He grippedthe broom tightly with both his hands and knees. He'd never feltanything like that.
d not suddenly decide to buck theirriders off. Harry tried to turn back toward the Gryffindor goal- posts-- he had half a mind to ask Wood to call time-out -- and then herealized that his broom was completely out of his control. He couldn'tturn it. He couldn't direct it at all. It was zigzagging through theair, and every now and then making violent swishing movements thatalmost unseated him.

e face by a Bludger, hope it broke his nose-- only joking, Professor -- Slytherins score -- A no...
. It was carrying- him slowly higher, awayfrom the game, jerking and twitching as it went.
now better, I'd say he'd lost control ofhis broom... but he can't have...."
d over, with him only just managing tohold on. Then the whole crowd gasped. Harry's broom had given a wildjerk and Harry swung off it. He was now dangling from it, holding onwith only one hand.



ful Dark magic -- no kid could do that toa Nimbus Two Thousand."
looking frantically at the crowd.


d on Harry and was muttering nonstopunder his breath.



His broom was vibrating so hard, it wasalmost impossible for him to hang on much longer. The whole crowd was onits feet, watching, terrified, as the Weasleys flew up to try and pullHarry safely onto one of their brooms, but it was no good -- every timethey got near him, the broom would jump higher still. They dropped lowerand circled beneath him, obviously hoping to catch him if he fell.Marcus


ehind him; she didn't even stop to saysorry as she knocked Professor Quirrell headfirst into the row in front.Reaching Snape, she crouched down, pulled out her wand, and whispered afew, well- chosen words. Bright blue flames shot from her wand onto thehem of Snape's robes.


ad done her job. Scooping the fire off himinto a little jar in her pocket, she scrambled back along the row --Snape would never know what had happened.

nutes.
as about to be sick -- he hit the fieldon all fours -- coughed -- and something gold fell into his hand.
.
de no difference -- Harry hadn't brokenany rules and Lee Jordan was still happily shouting the results --Gryffindor had won by one hundred and seventy points to sixty. Harryheard none of this, though. He was being made a cup of strong tea backin Hagrid's hut, with Ron and Hermione.
g, he wouldn't take his eyes off you."
ould Snape do somethin' like that?"
h.
loween. It bit him. We think he was tryingto steal whatever it's guarding."





ledore to guard the








Snape wouldn' try an' kill a student!Now, listen to me, all three of yeh -- yer meddlin' in things that don'concern yeh. It's dangerous. You forget that dog, an' you forget whatit's guardin', that's between Professor Dumbledore an' Nicolas Flamel--"







bewitching several snowballs so thatthey followed Quirrell around, bouncing off the back of his turban. Thefew owls that managed to battle their way through the stormy sky todeliver mail had to be nursed back to health by Hagrid before they couldfly off again.
roaring fires, the drafty corridors hadbecome icy and a bitter wind rattled the windows in the classrooms.Worst of all were Professor Snape's classes down in the dungeons, wheretheir breath rose in a mist before them and they kept as close aspossible to their hot cauldrons.
Hogwarts for Christmas because they'renot wanted at home."
dered spine of lionfish, ignored them.Malfoy had been even more unpleasant than usual since the Quidditchmatch. Disgusted that the Slytherins had lost, he had tried to geteveryone laughing at how a wide-mouthed tree frog would be replacingHarry as Seeker next. Then he'd realized that nobody found this funny,because they were all so impressed at the way Harry had managed to stayon his bucking broomstick. So Malfoy, jealous and angry, had gone backto taunting Harry about having no proper family.
around the week before, making a list ofstudents who would be staying for the holidays, and Harry had signed upat once. He didn't feel sorry for himself at all; this would probably bethe best Christmas he'd ever had. Ron and his brothers were staying,too, because Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were going to Romania to visitCharlie.
ahead. Two enormous feet sticking out atthe bottom and a loud puffing sound told them that Hagrid was behind it.




earn some extra money, Weasley? Hopingto be gamekeeper yourself when you leave Hogwarts, I suppose -- that hutof Hagrid's must seem like a palace compared to what your family's usedto."



e. "Malfoy was insultin' his family."
m Gryffindor, Weasley, and be grateful itisn't more. Move along, all of you."



at Hall, looks a treat."
and Professor Flitwick were busy withthe Christmas decorations.

han twelve towering Christmas trees stoodaround the room, some sparkling with tiny icicles, some glittering withhundreds of candles.



should be in the library."
les blossoming out of his wand and wastrailing them over the branches of the new tree.
't yeh?"
trying to find out who he is."
that dog's guardin'."

s of books already and we can't find himanywhere -- just give us a hint -- I know I've read his name somewhere."

urried off to the library.
else were they going to find out what Snapewas trying to steal? The trouble was, it was very hard to know where tobegin, not knowing what Flamel might have done to get himself into abook. He wasn't in Great Wizards of the Twentieth Century, or NotableMagical Names of Our Time; he was missing, too, from Important ModernMagical Discoveries, and A Study of Recent Developments in Wizardry. Andthen, of course, there was the sheer size of the library; tens ofthousands of books; thousands of shelves; hundreds of narrow rows.
row of books and started pulling themoff the shelves at random. Harry wandered over to the RestrictedSection. He had been wondering for a while if Flamel wasn't somewhere in


he restricted books, and he knew he'd neverget one. These were the books containing powerful Dark Magic nevertaught at Hogwarts, and only read by older students studying advancedDefense Against the Dark Arts.




one had already agreed they'd better notask Madam Pince where they could find Flamel. They were sure she'd beable to tell them, but they couldn't risk Snape hearing what they wereup to.
opeful. They had been looking for twoweeks, after A, but as they only had odd moments between lessons itwasn't surprising they'd found nothing. What they really needed was anice long search without Madam Pince breathing down their necks.

thing."


They had the dormitory to themselves and thecommon room was far emptier than usual, so they were able to get thegood armchairs by the fire. They sat by the hour eating anything theycould spear on a toasting fork -- bread, English muffins, marshmallows-- and plotting ways of getting Malfoy expelled, which were fun to talk



res were alive, which made it a lotlike directing troops in battle. Ron's set was very old and battered.Like everything else he owned, it had once belonged to someone else inhis family -- in this case, his grandfather. However, old chessmenweren't a drawback at all. Ron knew them so well he never had troublegetting them to do what he wanted.
a very good player yet and they keptshouting different bits of advice at him, which was confusing. "Don'tsend me there, can't you see his knight? Send him, we can afford to losehim." On Christmas Eve, Harry went to bed looking forward to the nextday for the food and the fun, but not expecting any presents at all.When he woke early in the morning, however, the first thing he saw was asmall pile of packages at the foot of his bed.


s.
ry, from Hagrid. Inside was a roughly cutwooden flute. Hagrid had obviously whittled it himself. Harry blew it --it sounded a bit like an owl.

d to the note was a fifty-pence piece.





ho sent these?"
l. "My mom. I told her you didn't expectany presents and -- oh, no," he groaned, "she's made you a Weasleysweater."
of homemade fudge.




ped.
from Hermione. "If that's what I think itis -- they're really rare, and really valuable."

into material.






ompletely invisible. He pulled the cloakover his head and his reflection vanished completely.

before were the following words: Yourfather left this in my possession before he died. It is time it wasreturned to you. Use it well.



is father?
sley bounded in. Harry stuffed the cloakquickly out of sight. He didn't feel like sharing it with anyone elseyet.



re of an effort if you're not family."




e. But we're not stupid -- we know we'recalled Gred and Forge."

rough unwrapping his presents as he, too,carried a lumpy sweater over his arm, which


lasses askew.



of roast and boiled potatoes; platters ofchipolatas; tureens of buttered peas, silver boats of thick, rich gravyand cranberry sauce -- and stacks of wizard crackers every few feetalong the table. These fantastic party favors were nothing like thefeeble Muggle ones the Dursleys usually bought, with their littleplastic toys and their flimsy paper hats inside. Harry pulled a wizardcracker with Fred and it didn't just bang, it went off with a blast likea cannon and engulfed them all in a cloud of blue smoke, while from theinside exploded a rear admiral's hat and several live, white mice. Up atthe High Table, Dumbledore had swapped his pointed wizard's hat for aflowered bonnet, and was chuckling merrily at a joke Professor Flitwickhad just read him.
ded in his slice. Harry watched Hagridgetting redder and redder in the face as he called for more wine,finally kissing Professor McGonagall on the cheek, who, to Harry's



uding a pack of nonexplodable, luminousballoons, a Grow-Your-Own-Warts kit, and his own new wizard chess set.The white mice had disappeared and Harry had a nasty feeling they weregoing to end up as Mrs. Norris's Christmas dinner.
cold, wet, and gasping for breath, theyreturned to the fire in the Gryffindor common room, where Harry broke inhis new chess set by losing spectacularly to Ron. He suspected hewouldn't have lost so badly if Percy hadn't tried to help him so much.
leepy to do much before bed except sit andwatch Percy chase Fred and George all over Gryffindor tower becausethey'd stolen his prefect badge.
ll day. Not until he climbed into bedwas he free to think about it: the invisibility cloak and whoever hadsent it.
he'd drawn the curtains of hisfour-poster. Harry leaned over the side of his own bed and pulled thecloak out from under it.
lk, light as air. Use it well, the notehad said.
s legs, he saw only moonlight andshadows. It was a very funny feeling.

ded through him as he stood there in thedark and silence. He could go anywhere in this, anywhere, and Filchwould never know.


felt that this time -- the first time -- hewanted to use it alone.
ait hole.

d Section in the library. He'd be able toread as long as he liked, as long as it took to find out who Flamel was.He set off, drawing the invisibility cloak tight around him as hewalked.
The lamp looked as if it was floating alongin midair, and even though Harry could feel his arm supporting it, thesight gave him the creeps.
eparated these books from the rest of thelibrary, he held up his lamp to read the titles.
t understand. Some had no title at all.One book had a dark stain on it that looked horribly like blood. Thehairs on the back of Harry's neck prickled. Maybe he was imagining it,maybe not, but he thought a faint whispering was coming from the books,as though they knew someone was there who shouldn't be.
helf for an interestinglooking book. A largeblack and silver volume caught his eye. He pulled it out withdifficulty, because it was very heavy, and, balancing it on his knee,let it fall open.
but the shriek went on and on, onehigh, unbroken, earsplitting note. He stumbled backward and knocked overhis lamp, which went out at once. Panicking, he heard footsteps coming


Filch in the doorway; Filch's pale, wildeyes looked straight through him, and Harry slipped under Filch'soutstretched arm and streaked off up the corridor, the book's shrieksstill ringing in his ears.
library, he hadn't paid attention to wherehe was going. Perhaps because it was dark, he didn't recognize where hewas at all. There was a suit of armor near the kitchens, he knew, but hemust be five floors above there.
dy's been in the library RestrictedSection."
soft, greasy voice was getting nearer, andto his horror, it was Snape who replied, "The Restricted Section? Well,they can't be far, we'll catch them."
, of course, but it was a narrow corridorand if they came much nearer they'd knock right into him -- the cloakdidn't stop him from being solid.
ed through it, holding his breath, tryingnot to move it, and to his relief he managed to get inside the roomwithout their noticing anything. They walked straight past, and Harryleaned against the wall, breathing deeply, listening to their footstepsdying away. That had been close, very close. It was a few seconds beforehe noticed anything about the room he had hidden in.
and there was an upturned wastepaperbasket -- but propped against the wall facing him was something thatdidn't look as if it belonged there, something that looked as if someonehad just put it there to keep it out of the way.
d feet. There was an inscription carvedaround the top: Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi. His panic


ook at himself but see no reflectionagain. He stepped in front of it.
s pounding far more furiously than when thebook had screamed -- for he had seen not only himself in the mirror, buta whole crowd of people standing right behind him.

st ten others. Harry looked over hisshoulder -- but still, no one was there. Or were they all invisible,too? Was he in fact in a room full of invisible people and this mirror'strick was that it reflected them, invisible or not?
ving. He reached out a hand and feltthe air behind him. If she was really there, he'd touch her, theirreflections were so close together, but he felt only air -- she and theothers existed only in the mirror.
thought, edging a little closer to theglass. Bright green -- exactly the same shape, but then he noticed thatshe was crying; smiling, but crying at the same time. The tall, thin,black-haired man standing next to her put his arm around her. He woreglasses, and his hair was very untidy. It stuck up at the back, just asHarry's did.


mirror, and saw other pairs of greeneyes like his, other noses like his, even a little old man who looked asthough he had Harry's knobbly knees -- Harry was looking at his family,for the first time in his life.


inst the glass as though he was hopingto fall right through it and reach them. He had a powerful kind of acheinside him, half joy, half terrible sadness.
a distant noise brought him back to hissenses. He couldn't stay here, he had to find his way back to bed. Hetore his eyes away from his mother's face, whispered, "I'll come back,"and hurried from the room.



nd everyone."
ly shows dead people. Shame about notfinding Flamel, though. Have some bacon or something, why aren't youeating anything?"
gotten about Flamel. It didn't seem veryimportant anymore. Who cared what the three headed dog was guarding?What did it matter if Snape stole it, really?

in the cloak, too, they had to walk muchmore slowly the next night. They tried retracing Harry's route from thelibrary, wandering around the dark passageways for nearly an hour.


Ron started moaning that his feet were dead











n in his paisley pajamas.





up -- I'm Quidditch captain, too.








y they had been talking.

arry stood quite still, both thinking thesame thing -- did the cloak work on cats? After what seemed an age, sheturned and left.









y. Filch, Snape, and Mrs. Norris arewandering around. So what if they can't see you? What if they walk intoyou? What if you knock something over?"




n't going to stop him.
ing more noise than was wise, but hedidn't meet anyone.
y. Harry sank down to sit on the floor infront of the mirror. There was nothing to stop him from staying here allnight with his family. Nothing at all.


by the wall was none other than AlbusDumbledore. Harry must have walked straight past him, so desperate toget to the mirror he hadn't noticed him.

e that he was smiling.
re you, have discovered the delights ofthe Mirror of Erised."







or of Erised shows us all?"

rror, that is, he would look into itand see himself exactly as he is. Does that help?"

rate desire of our hearts. You, who havenever known your family, see them standing around you. Ronald Weasley,who has always been overshadowed by his brothers, sees himself standingalone, the best of all of them. However, this mirror will give usneither knowledge or truth. Men have wasted away before it, entranced bywhat they have seen, or been driven mad, not knowing if what it shows isreal or even possible.
. If you ever do run across it, you willnow be prepared. It does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live,remember that. Now, why don't you put that admirable cloak back on andget off to bed?"






get a single pair. People will insist ongiving me books."


uthful. But then, he thought, as he shovedScabbers off his pillow, it had been quite a personal question.


the Christmas holidays theinvisibility cloak stayed folded at the bottom of his trunk. Harrywished he could forget what he'd seen in the mirror as easily, but hecouldn't. He started having nightmares. Over and over again he dreamedabout his parents disappearing in a flash of green light, while a highvoice cackled with laughter.
these drearns.
tween horror at the idea of Harry beingout of bed, roaming the school three nights in a row ("If Filch hadcaught you!"), and disappointment that he hadn't at least found out whoNicolas Flamel was.
sure he'd read the name somewhere.Once term had started, they were back to skimming through books for tenminutes during their breaks. Harry had even less time than the othertwo, because Quidditch practice had started again.
dampen his spirits. The Weasleyscomplained that Wood was becoming a fanatic, but Harry was on Wood'sside. If they won their next match, against Hufflepuff, they wouldovertake Slytherin in the house championship for the first time in sevenyears. Quite apart from wanting to win, Harry found that he had fewernightmares when he was tired out after training.
e'd just gotten very angry with the



h! Snape's refereeing this time, and he'llbe looking for any excuse to knock points off Gryffindor!"

atch? He's not going to be fair if wemight overtake Slytherin."

t an excuse to pick on us."
e he was playing Quidditch....
ed straight back to the Gryffindor commonroom, where he found Ron and Hermione playing chess. Chess was the onlything Hermione ever lost at, something Harry and Ron thought was verygood for her.
aught sight of Harry's face. "What's thematter with you? You look terrible."
ter desire to be a Quidditch referee.








hole was anyone's guess, because his legshad been stuck together with what they recognized at once as theLeg-Locker Curse. He must have had to bunny hop all the way up toGryffindor tower.
egs sprang apart and he got to his feet,trembling. "What happened?" Hermione asked him, leading him over to sitwith Harry and Ron.
to practice that on."



no reason to lie down in front ofhim and make it easier."
ville choked out.
Hermione had given him for Christmas. Hegave it to Neville, who looked as though he might cry.
d where's Malfoy? In stinking Slytherin."







read it on the train coming here -- listento this: 'Dumbledore is particularly famous for his defeat of the darkwizard Grindelwald in 1945, for the discovery of the twelve uses ofdragon's blood, and his work on alchemy with his partner, NicolasFlamel'!"
r very first piece of homework.
y had time to exchange mystified looksbefore she was dashing back, an enormous old book in her arms.
for a bit of light reading."
cking frantically through the pages,muttering to herself.







th making the Sorcerer's Stone, a


so produces the Elixir of Life, whichwill make the drinker immortal.
in existence belongs to Mr. Nicolas Flamel,the noted alchemist and opera lover. Mr. Flamel, who celebrated his sixhundred and sixty-fifth birthday last year, enjoys a quiet life in Devonwith his wife, Perenelle (six hundred and fifty-eight).
Stone! I bet he asked Dumbledore to keep itsafe for him, because they're friends and he knew someone was after it,that's why he wanted the Stone moved out of Gringotts!"
one would want it."
He's not exactly recent if he'ssix hundred and sixty-five, is he?"
wolf bites, Harry and Ron were stilldiscussing what they'd do with a Sorcerer's Stone if they had one. Itwasn't until Ron said he'd buy his own Quidditch team that Harryremembered about Snape and the coming match.
o scared to face Snape. I'll showthem... it'll really wipe the smiles off their faces if we win."

one. The rest of the team wasn't too calm,either. The idea of overtaking Slytherin in the house championship waswonderful, no one had done it for seven years, but would they be allowedto, with such a biased referee?
er he went. At times, he even wonderedwhether Snape was following him, trying to catch him on his own. Potions


bly know they'd found out about theSorcerer's Stone? Harry didn't see how he could -- yet he sometimes hadthe horrible feeling that Snape could read minds.
Hermione were wondering whether they'd eversee him alive again. This wasn't what you'd call comforting. Harryhardly heard a word of Wood's pep talk as he pulled on his Quidditchrobes and picked up his Nimbus Two Thousand.
why they looked so grim and worried, orwhy they had both brought their wands to the match. Little did Harryknow that Ron and Hermione had been secretly practicing the Leg-LockerCurse. They'd gotten the idea from Malfoy using it on Neville, and wereready to use it on Snape if he showed any sign of wanting to hurt Harry.



ish the game before Snape can favorHufflepuff too much."
dore's come to watch!"

silver beard.
are to try to hurt him if Dumbledore waswatching.
on noticed, too.






asley?"
er at him. Hermione, who had all herfingers crossed in her lap, was squinting fixedly at Harry, who wascircling the game like a hawk, looking for the Snitch.
ater, as Snape awarded Hufflepuff anotherpenalty for no reason at all. "It's people they feel sorry for. See,there's Potter, who's got no parents, then there's the Weasleys, who'vegot no money -- you should be on the team, Longbottom, you've got nobrains."


ame, said, "You tell him, Neville."







stood up, her crossed fingers in hermouth, as Harry streaked toward the ground like a bullet.

d. Neville hesitated, then clambered overthe back of his seat to help.
- she didn't even notice Malfoy and Ronrolling around under her seat, or the scuffles and yelps coming from thewhirl of fists that was Neville, Crabbe, and Goyle.
issing him by inches -- the nextsecond, Harry had pulled out of the dive, his arm raised in triumph, theSnitch clasped in his hand.
kly.
ed Hermione, dancing up and down onher seat and hugging Parvati Patil in the row in front.
was over; it had barely lasted fiveminutes. As Gryffindors came spilling onto the field, he saw Snape landnearby, white-faced and tight-lipped -- then Harry felt a hand on hisshoulder and looked up into Dumbledore's smiling face.
ooding about that mirror... been keepingbusy... excellent..."

ed. He couldn't ever remember feeling


any more. The evening air had neversmelled so sweet. He walked over the damp grass, reliving the last hourin his head, which was a happy blur: Gryffindors running to lift himonto their shoulders; Ron and Hermione in the distance, jumping up anddown, Ron cheering through a heavy nosebleed.
dows glowing red in the setting sun.Gryffindor in the lead. He'd done it, he'd shown Snape....

alked as fast as possible toward theforbidden forest. Harry's victory faded from his mind as he watched. Herecognized the figure's prowling walk. Snape, sneaking into the forestwhile everyone else was at dinner -- what was going on?
ape enter the forest at a run. Hefollowed.
ushing the top branches of trees until heheard voices. He glided toward them and landed noiselessly in a toweringbeech tree.
h the leaves. Below, in a shadowyclearing, stood Snape, but he wasn't alone. Quirrell was there, too.Harry couldn't make out the look on his face, but he was stutteringworse than ever. Harry strained to catch what they were saying.

about the Sorcerer's Stone, afterall."








e say, "-- your little bit of hocus-pocus.I'm waiting."

over and decided where your loyaltieslie."
uld see Quirrell, standing quite still asthough he was petrified.

nd Neville tried to take on Crabbe and Goylesingle-handed! He's still out cold but Madam Pomftey says he'll be allright - talk about showing Slytherin! Everyone's waiting for you in thecommon room, we're having a party, Fred and George stole some cakes andstuff from the kitchens."
s...."
een and heard.
t. He asked if he knew how to get past


ing the stone apart from Fluffy, loads ofenchantments, probably, and Quirrell would have done some anti-Dark Artsspell that Snape needs to break through --"




to be getting paler and thinner, but itdidn't look as though he'd cracked yet.
he door to check that Fluffy wasstill growling inside. Snape was sweeping about in his usual bad temper,which surely meant that the Stone was still safe. Whenever Harry passedQuirrell these days he gave him an encouraging sort of smile, and Ronhad started telling people off for laughing at Quirrell's stutter.
chedules and colorcoding all her notes.Harry and Ron wouldn't have minded, but she kept nagging them to do thesame.


ady know it A."
d year? They're very important, Ishould have started studying a month ago, I don't know what's gotteninto me...."


h homework on them that the Easterholidays weren't nearly as much fun as the Christmas ones. It was hardto relax with Hermione next to you reciting the twelve uses of dragon'sblood or practicing wand movements. Moaning and yawning, Harry and Ronspent most of their free time in the library with her, trying to getthrough all their extra work.
y out of the library window. It was thefirst really fine day they'd had in months. The sky was a clear,forget-me-not blue, and there was a feeling in the air of summer coming.
heard Ron say, "Hagrid! What are youdoing in the library?"
kin overcoat.
er?" He looked suddenly suspicious. "Yernot still lookin' fer Nicolas Flamel, are yeh?" "Oh, we found out who heis ages ago," said Ron impressively. "And we know what that dog'sguarding, it's a Sorcerer's St --"
t's the matter with yeh?"
g the Stone apart from Fluffy --"
, mind, but don' go rabbitin' about itin here, students aren' s'pposed ter know. They'll think I've told yeh--"






te later with a pile of books in his armsand slammed them down on the table.
Great Britain and Ireland; From Egg toInferno, A Dragon Keeper's Guide."

709, everyone knows that. It's hard to stopMuggles from noticing us if we're keeping dragons in the back garden -anyway, you can't tame dragons, it's dangerous. You should see the burnsCharlie's got off wild ones in Romania."

a job hushing them up, I can tell you.Our kind have to keep putting spells on Muggles who've spotted them, tomake them forget."

all the curtains were closed. Hagridcalled "Who is it?" before he let them in, and then shut the doorquickly behind them.
. Hagrid made them tea and offered themstoat sandwiches, which they refused.

s what's guarding the Sorcerer's Stoneapart from Fluffy."



o I wouldn' tell yeh if I could. ThatStone's here fer a good reason. It Was almost stolen outta Gringotts - Is'ppose yeh've worked that out an' all? Beats me how yeh even know abou'Fluffy."
n round here," said Hermione in a warm,flattering voice. Hagrid's beard twitched and they could tell he wassmiling. "We only wondered who had done the guarding, really." Hermionewent on. "We wondered who Dumbledore had trusted enough to help him,apart from you."

en some o' the teachers did enchantments...Professor Sprout -- Professor Flitwick -- Professor McGonagall --" heticked them off on his fingers, "Professor Quirrell -- an' Dumbledorehimself did somethin', o' course. Hang on, I've forgotten someone. Ohyeah, Professor Snape."

er steal it."
Stone, it must have been easy to find outhow the other teachers had guarded it. He probably knew everything --except, it seemed, Quirrell's spell and how to get past Fluffy.
d you wouldn't tell anyone, would you?Not even one of the teachers?"







ack egg.

t must've cost you a fortune."
o' cards with a stranger. Think he wasquite glad ter get rid of it, ter be honest."

is outta the library -- Dragon Breedingfor Pleasure and Profit -- it's a bit outta date, o' course, but it'sall in here. Keep the egg in the fire, 'cause their mothers breathe on Iem, see, an' when it hatches, feed it on a bucket o' brandy mixed withchicken blood every half hour. An' see here -- how ter recognizediff'rent eggs -- what I got there's a Norwegian Ridgeback. They'rerare, them."



hiding an illegal dragon in his hut."Wonder what it's like to have a peaceful life," Ron sighed, as eveningafter evening they struggled through all the extra homework they weregetting. Hermione had now started making study schedules for Harry andRon, too. It was driving them nuts.


s: It's hatching.


omeone finds out what he's doing --"

t like the look on Malfoy's face at all.
d's with the other two duringmorning break. When the bell sounded from the castle at the end of theirlesson, the three of them dropped their trowels at once and hurriedthrough the grounds to the edge of the forest. Hagrid greeted them,looking flushed and excited.

icking noise was coming from it.

. It wasn't exactly pretty; Harry thoughtit looked like a crumpled, black umbrella. Its spiny wings were hugecompared to its skinny jet body, it had a long snout with wide nostrils,the stubs of horns and bulging, orange eyes.

at his fingers, showing pointed fangs.




ran to the window.

hool."


very nervous. They spent most of theirfree time in Hagrid's darkened hut, trying to reason with him.


of its nostrils. Hagrid hadn't been doinghis gamekeeping duties because the dragon was keeping him so busy. Therewere empty brandy bottles and chicken feathers all over the floor.
ows me now, watch. Norbert! Norbert!Where's Mommy?"

oy could go to Dumbledore at any moment."






Charlie can take care of him and then puthim back in the wild!"


oom, long after everyone else had gone tobed. The clock on the wall had just
's invisibility cloak. He had been down atHagrid's hut, helping him feed Norbert, who was now eating dead rats bythe crate.
ng to be able to hold a quill for aweek. I tell you, that dragon's the most horrible animal I've ever met,but the way Hagrid goes on about it, you'd think it was a fluffy littlebunny rabbit. When it bit me he told me off for frightening it. And whenI left, he was singing it a lullaby."




sy getting him here. I think the best thing


they mustn't be seen carrying an illegaldragon.
take him away while it's stilldark.




big enough to cover two of us andNorbert."
id of Norbert -- and Malfoy.
n't know whether it was safe to go to MadamPomfrey -- would she recognize a dragon bite? By the afternoon, though,he had no choice. The cut had turned a nasty shade of green. It lookedas if Norbert's fangs were poisonous.
te in bed.
Madam Pomfrey he wanted to borrow one ofmy books so he could come and have a good laugh at me. He keptthreatening to tell her what really bit me -- I've told her it was adog, but I don't think she believes me -I shouldn't have hit him at theQuidditch match, that's why he's doing this."

contrary, he sat bolt upright and broke



letter was in that book Malfoy took, he'sgoing to know we're getting rid of Norbert."
m leave, saying Ron needed sleep.
ther owl, and this could be our only chanceto get rid of Norbert. We'll have to risk it. And we have got theinvisibility cloak, Malfoy doesn't know about that."
ho opened a window to talk to them.

because Norbert had just bitten him on theleg.

e castle feeling Saturday couldn't comequickly enough.
adn't been so worried about what they hadto do. It was a very dark, cloudy night, and they were a bit latearriving at Hagrid's hut because they'd had to wait for Peeves to getout of their way in the entrance hall, where he'd been playing tennisagainst the wall. Hagrid had Norbert packed and ready in a large crate.
cked his teddy bear in case he getslonely."




k and stepped underneath it themselves."Mommy will never forget you!"
hey heaved Norbert up the marblestaircase in the entrance hall and along the dark corridors. UP anotherstaircase, then another -- even one of Harry's shortcuts didn't make thework much easier.

dy invisible, they shrank into theshadows, staring at the dark outlines of two people grappling with eachother ten feet away. A lamp flared.

ght, how dare you --"

alfoy!"
t. Not until they'd stepped out into thecold night air did they throw off the cloak, glad to be able to breatheproperly again. Hermione did a sort of jig.


our broomsticks came swooping down out



they could suspend Norbert between them.They all helped buckle Norbert safely into it and then Harry andHermione shook hands with the others and thanked them very much.

as off them. No more dragon -- Malfoy indetention -- what could spoil their happiness?
face loomed suddenly out of thedarkness.





thout saying a word to each other. Hermionewas trembling. Excuses, alibis, and wild cover- up stories chased eachother around Harry's brain, each more feeble than the last. He couldn'tsee how they were going to get out of trouble this time. They werecornered. How could they have been so stupid as to forget the cloak?There was no reason on earth that Professor McGonagall would accept fortheir being out of bed and creeping around the school in the dead ofnight, let alone being up the tallest astronomy tower, which wasout-of-bounds except for classes. Add Norbert and the invisibilitycloak, and they might as well be packing their bags already.
red, she was leading Neville.


heard Malfoy saying he was going tocatch you, he said you had a drag --"
likely to breathe fire than Norbertas she towered over the three of them.
s one o'clock in the morning. Explainyourselves."
slippers, as still as a statue.
genius to work it out. You fed DracoMalfoy some cock-and-bull story about a dragon, trying to get him out ofbed and into trouble. I've already caught him. I suppose you think it'sfunny that Longbottom here heard the story and believed it, too?"
was looking stunned and hurt. Poor,blundering Neville -- Harry knew what it must have cost him to try andfind them in the dark, to warn them.
of such a thing before! You, Miss Granger, Ithought you had more sense. As for you, Mr. Potter, I thought Gryffindormeant more to you than this. All three of you will receive detentions --yes, you too, Mr. Longbottom, nothing gives you the right to walk aroundschool at night, especially these days, it's very dangerous -- and fiftypoints will be taken from Gryffindor."






ashamed of Gryffindor students."
hance Gryffindor had had for the housecup. Harry felt as though the bottom had dropped out of his stomach. Howcould they ever make up for this?
s. Harry couldn't think of anything tosay to comfort him. He knew Neville, like himself, was dreading thedawn. What would happen when the rest of Gryffindor found out whatthey'd done?
ht there'd been a mistake. How could theysuddenly have a hundred and fifty points fewer than yesterday? And thenthe story started to spread: Harry Potter, the famous Harry Potter,their hero of two Quidditch matches, had lo st them all those points,him and a couple of other stupid first years.
d. Even Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffsturned on him, because everyone had been longing to see Slytherin losethe house cup. Everywhere Harry went, people pointed and didn't troubleto lower their voices as they insulted him. Slytherins, on the otherhand, clapped as he walked past them, whistling and cheering, "ThanksPotter, we owe you one!"

ey've been here, and people still likethem."


't his business from now on. He'd had it


sign from the Quidditch team.
win at Quidditch?"
d if they had to speak about him, theycalled him "the Seeker."
't as well-known, but nobody would speak tothem, either. Hermione had stopped drawing attention to herself inclass, keeping her head down and working in silence.
f his misery. He, Ron, and Hermione kept tothemselves, working late into the night, trying to remember theingredients in complicated potions, learn charms and spells by heart,memorize the dates of magical discoveries and goblin rebellions....
thing that didn't concern him was putto an unexpected test. Walking back from the library on his own oneafternoon, he heard somebody whimpering from a classroom up ahead. As hedrew closer, he heard Quirrell's voice.



oked as though he was about to cry. Hestrode out of sight; Harry didn't think Quirrell had even noticed him.He waited until Quirrell's footsteps had disappeared, then peered intothe classroom. It was empty, but a door stood ajar at the other end.Harry was halfway toward it before he remembered what he'd promisedhimself about not meddling.
what Harry had just heard, Snape would be



d heard.


sands of books surrounding them. "I betthere's a book somewhere in here telling you how to get past a giantthree-headed dog. So what do we do, Harry?"

rown out for sure."
e doesn't know how the troll got in atHalloween and that he was nowhere near the third floor -- who do youthink they'll believe, him or us? It's not exactly a secret we hate him,Dumbledore'll think we made it up to get him sacked. Filch wouldn't helpus if his life depended on it, he's too friendly with Snape, and themore students get thrown out, the better, he'll think. And don't forget,we're not supposed to know about the Stone or Fluffy. That'll take a lotof explaining."




hey were all the same:



they'd lost. He half expected Hermione tocomplain that this was a whole night of studying lost, but she didn'tsay a word. Like Harry, she felt they deserved what they'd got.
nce hall with Neville. Filch was alreadythere -- and so was Malfoy. Harry had also forgotten that Malfoy hadgotten a detention, too.

. "Oh yes... hard work and pain are thebest teachers if you ask me.... It's just a pity they let the oldpunishments die out... hang you by your wrists from the ceiling for afew days, I've got the chains still in my office, keep 'em well oiled incase they're ever needed.... Right, off we go, and don't think ofrunning off, now, it'll be worse for you if you do."
was going to be. It must be somethingreally horrible, or Filch wouldn't be sounding so delighted.
ld see the lighted windows of Hagrid'shut. Then they heard a distant shout.

st have showed in his -face, becauseFilch said, "I suppose you think you'll be enjoying yourself with thatoaf? Well, think again, boy -- it's into the forest you're going and I'mmuch mistaken if you'll all come out in one piece."



-- there's all sorts of things in there-- werewolves, I heard."

werewolves before you got in trouble,shouldn't you?"
w, and a quiver of arrows hung over hisshoulder.

all."
ce ter do that. Yeh've done yer bit,I'll take over from here."
arted back toward the castle, his lampbobbing away in the darkness.


t ter pay fer it."
, if my father knew I was doing this, he'd
Yeh'll do summat useful or Yeh'll get out.If yeh think yer father'd rather you were expelled, then get back offter the castle an' pack. Go on"'



an' I don' want no one takin' risks. Followme over here a moment."
ng earth track that disappeared into thethick black trees. A light breeze lifted their hair as they looked intothe forest.
. There's a unicorn in there bin hurtbadly by summat. This is the second time in a week. I found one deadlast Wednesday. We're gonna try an' find the poor thing. We might haveter put it out of its misery."
is voice.
keep ter the path. Right, now, we'regonna split inter two parties an' follow the trail in diff'rentdirections. There's blood all over the place, it must've bin staggerin'around since last night at least."

n' Draco, Neville, an' Fang'll go the other.Now, if any of us finds the unicorn, we'll send up green sparks, right?Get yer wands out an' practice now -- that's it -- an' if anyone gets introuble, send up red sparks, an' we'll all come an' find yeh -- so, becareful -- let's go."
y, Hermione, and Hagrid took the leftpath while Malfoy, Neville, and Fang took the right.
ranches above lit a spot of silver-blue





I never knew one ter be hurt before."
close by. There were still spots ofunicorn blood here and there along the winding path.
t, an' then we'll be able ter -- GETBEHIND THAT TREE!"
n arrow and fitted it into his crossbow,raising it, ready to fire. The three of them listened. Something wasslithering over dead leaves nearby: it sounded like a cloak trailingalong the ground. Hagrid was squinting up the dark path, but after a fewseconds, the sound faded away.


careful, now."
ing definitely moved.

but below that was a horse's gleamingchestnut body with a long, reddish tail. Harry and Hermione's jawsdropped.




e?"
orest. This is Harry Potter an'Hermione Granger, by the way. Students up at the school. An' this isRonan, you two. He's a centaur.))




bright tonight."
unicorn bin hurt -- you seen anythin'?"




thin' strange?"



r, black-haired and -bodied andwilder-looking than Ronan.


rn bin injured -- would yeh know anythin'about it?"

We'll be off, then."
ntil the trees blocked their view.
t interested in anythin' closer'n themoon."

ever I want a word. They're deep, mind,centaurs... they know things... jus' don' let on much."

ever heard anythin' like it before."
the nasty feeling they were beingwatched. He was very glad they had Hagrid and his crossbow with them.They had just passed a bend in the path when Hermione grabbed Hagrid'sarm.




til they couldn't hear anything but therustling of leaves around them.

place."
igh of the wind, every cracking twig.What was going on? Where were the others?
Hagrid was fuming. Malfoy, it seemed,had sneaked up behind Neville and grabbed him as a joke. Neville hadpanicked and sent up the sparks.
oups -- Neville, you stay with me an'Hermione, Harry, you go with Fang an' this idiot. I'm sorry," Hagridadded in a whisper to Harry, "but he'll have a harder time frightenin'you, an' we've gotta get this done."
ur, deeper and deeper into the forest, untilthe path became almost impossible to follow because the trees were sothick. Harry thought the blood seemed to be getting thicker. There weresplashes on the roots of a tree, as though the poor creature had beenthrashing around in pain close by. Harry could see a clearing ahead,through the tangled branches of an ancient oak.


s long, slender legs were stuck out atodd angles where it had fallen and its mane was spread pearly-white on



the edge of the clearing quivered....Then, out of the shadows, a hooded figure came crawling across theground like some stalking beast. Harry, Malfoy, and Fang stoodtransfixed. The cloaked figure reached the unicorn, lowered its headover the wound in the animal's side, and began to drink its blood.

ked right at Harry -- unicorn blood wasdribbling down its front. It got to its feet and came swiftly towardHarry -- he couldn't move for fear.
f blinded, he staggered backward. Heheard hooves behind him, galloping, and something jumped clean overHarry, charging at the figure.
oked up, the figure had gone. A centaurwas standing over him, not Ronan or Bane; this one looked younger; hehad white-blond hair and a palomino body.


t Harry, his eyes lingering on the scarthat stood out, livid, on Harry's forehead.
time -- especially for you. Can you ride?It will be quicker this way.
r onto his back.
bursting through the trees, their flanks



you a common mule?"
t, the better."
against the heavens. Have we not readwhat is to come in the movements of the planets?"
his gloomy voice.

not our business to run around likedonkeys after stray humans in our forest!"
on.
have the planets not let you in on thatsecret? I set myself against what is lurking in this forest, Bane, yes,with humans alongside me if I must."
, leaving Ronan and Bane behind them.


d not answer Harry's question. They madetheir way through the trees in silence for so long that Harry thoughtFirenze didn't want to talk to him anymore. They were passing through aparticularly dense patch of trees, however, when Firenze suddenlystopped.




to lose, and everything to gain,would commit such a crime. The blood of a unicorn will keep you alive,even if you are an inch from death, but at a terrible price. You haveslain something pure and defenseless to save yourself, and you will havebut a half-life, a cursed life, from the moment the blood touches yourlips."

r, isn't it?"
something that will bring you back tofull strength and power -- something that will mean you can never die.Mr. Potter, do you know what is hidden in the school at this verymoment?"

g their chance?"
ees, he seemed to hear once more whatHagrid had told him on the night they had met: "Some say he died.Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he had enough human left in him todie."






clearing back there."
safe now."

aurs. I hope this is one of thosetimes."

Quidditch fouls when Harry roughlyshook him awake. In a matter of seconds, though, he was wide-eyed asHarry began to tell him and Hermione what had happened in the forest.

thought Snape just wanted to getrich...."


ring with what the planets say is going tohappen.... They must show that Voldemort's coming back.... Bane thinksFirenze should have let Voldemort kill me.... I suppose that's writtenin the stars as well."




be happy."

d, You-Know-Who won't touch you. Anyway,who says the centaurs are right? It sounds like fortune-telling to me,and Professor McGonagall says that's a very imprecise branch of magic."
But the night's surprises weren't over.
re was a note pinned to it:



e half expected Voldemort to come burstingthrough the door at any moment. Yet the days crept by, and there couldbe no doubt that Fluffy was still alive and well behind the locked door.
d been given special, new quills for theexams, which had been bewitched with an AntiCheating spell.
they could make a pineapple tapdance acrossa desk. Professor McGonagall watched them turn a mouse into a snuffbox-- points were given for how pretty the snuffbox was, but taken away ifit had whiskers. Snape made them all nervous, breathing down their neckswhile they tried to remember how to make a Forgetfulness potion.
ering him ever since his trip into theforest. Neville thought Harry had a bad case of exam nerves becauseHarry couldn't sleep, but the truth was that Harry kept being woken by


blood in it.
scars burning on their foreheads, but Ronand Hermione didn't seem as worried about the Stone as Harry. The ideaof Voldemort certainly scared them, but he didn't keep visiting them indreams, and they were so busy with their studying they didn't have muchtime to fret about what Snape or anyone else might be up to.
o'd invented selfstirring cauldronsand they'd be free, free for a whole wonderful week until their examresults came out. When the ghost of Professor Binns told them to putdown their quills and roll up their parchment, Harry couldn't helpcheering with the rest.
t onto the sunny grounds. "I needn't havelearned about the 1637 Werewolf Code of Conduct or the uprising ofElfric the Eager."
so they wandered down to the lake andflopped under a tree. The Weasley twins and Lee Jordan were tickling thetentacles of a giant squid, which was basking in the warm shallows. "Nomore studying," Ron sighed happily, stretching out on the grass. "Youcould look more cheerful, Harry, we've got a week before we find out howbadly we've done, there's no need to worry yet."

, but never as often as this."






rly had his leg ripped off once, he's notgoing to try it again in a hurry. And Neville will play Quidditch forEngland before Hagrid lets Dumbledore down."
do, something important. When he tried toexplain this, Hermione said, "That's just the exams. I woke up lastnight and was halfway through my Transfiguration notes before Iremembered we'd done that one."
n owl flutter toward the school acrossthe bright blue sky, a note clamped in its mouth. Hagrid was the onlyone who ever sent him letters. Hagrid would never betray Dumbledore.Hagrid would never tell anyone how to get past Fluffy... never... but --


ow."

more than anything else is a dragon, anda stranger turns up who just happens to have an egg in his pocket? Howmany people wander around with dragon eggs if it's against wizard law?Lucky they found Hagrid, don't you think? Why didn't I see it before?"
dn't answer.
was shelling peas into a large bowl.








illage. Mighta bin a dragon dealer, mightn'he? I never saw his face, he kept his hood up."
gwarts at all?"
told him I was gamekeeper here....He asked a bit about the sorta creatures I took after... so I toldhim... an' I said what I'd always really wanted was a dragon... an'then... I can' remember too well, 'cause he kept buyin' me drinks....Let's see... yeah, then he said he had the dragon egg an' we could playcards fer it if I wanted... but he had ter be sure I could handle it, hedidn' want it ter go ter any old home.... So I told him, after Fluffy, adragon would be easy..."

a piece o' cake if yeh know how tocalm him down, jus' play him a bit o' music an' he'll go straight offter sleep --"


hall, which seemed very cold and gloomyafter the grounds.
t was either Snape or Voldemort under that


e might back us up if Bane doesn't stophim. Where's Dumbledore's office?"
een told where Dumbledore lived, nordid they know anyone who had been sent to see him.




ant to do. "Why?"

ils flared.
istry of Magic and flew off forLondon at once."







her arms, but she didn't pick them up."How do you know --?" she spluttered.
o talk to Professor Dumbledore."

the Stone, but rest assured, no one canpossibly steal it, it's too well protected."

ooks. I suggest you all go back outside andenjoy the sunshine."

through the trapdoor tonight. He's foundout everything he needs, and now he's got Dumbledore out of the way. Hesent that note, I bet the Ministry of Magic will get a real shock whenDumbledore turns up."










ore points, can it?"

Good day to you."


pe -- wait outside the staff room andfollow him if he leaves it. Hermione, you'd better do that."

a high voice, "'Oh Professor Flitwick,I'm so worried, I think I got question fourteen b wrong....'"


rest of the school than ProfessorMcGonagall turned up again and this time, she lost her temper.
this nonsense! If I hear you 'vecome anywhere near here again, I'll take another fifty points fromGryffindor! Yes, Weasley, from my own house!" Harry and Ron went back tothe common room, Harry had just said, "At least Hermione's on Snape'stail," when the portrait of the Fat Lady swung open and Hermione camein.
g for Flitwick, and Snape went to get him,








ack! Haven't you heard what it was likewhen he was trying to take over? There won't be any Hogwarts to getexpelled from! He'll flatten it, or turn it into a school for the DarkArts! Losing points doesn't matter anymore, can't you see? D'you thinkhe'll leave you and your families alone if Gryffindor wins the housecup? If I get caught before I can get to the Stone, well, I'll have togo back to the Dursleys and wait for Voldemort to find me there, it'sonly dying a bit later than I would have, because I'm never going overto the Dark Side! I'm going through that trapdoor tonight and nothingyou two say is going to stop me! Voldemort killed my parents, remember?"






er go and took through my books, theremight be something useful..."



elve percent on his exam. They're notthrowing me out after that."
the Gryffindors had anything to say toHarry any more, after all. This was the first night he hadn't been upsetby it. Hermione was skimming through all her notes, hoping to comeacross one of the enchantments they were about to try to break. Harryand Ron didn't talk much. Both of them were thinking about what theywere about to do.

pstairs to their dark dormitory. Heputted out the cloak and then his eyes fell on the flute Hagrid hadgiven him for Christmas. He pocketed it to use on Fluffy -- he didn'tfeel much like singing.

our feet wandering along on its own --"
air, clutching Trevor the toad, who lookedas though he'd been making another bid for freedom.




might even now be playing Fluffy to sleep.





you!"

you were the one who told me to stand up topeople!"









he stood and then fell flat on his face,stiff as a board.


s were moving, looking at them in horror.



cloak.
state, every statue's shadow lookedlike Filch, every distant breath of wind sounded like Peeves swoopingdown on them. At the foot of the first set of stairs, they spotted Mrs.Norris skulking near the top.
climbed carefully around her, Mrs. Norristurned her lamplike eyes on them, but didn't do anything.
ng halfway up, loosening the carpet so thatpeople would trip.
you're there, even if I can't see you. Areyou ghoulie or ghostie or wee student beastie?"




e stairs.


e you -- of course I didn't, you'reinvisible -- forgive old Peevsie his little joke, sir."

es well, Baron, I'll not bother you."


ar.

h the cloak, Harry turned to the othertwo.




in their direction, even though itcouldn't see them.





t's eyes began to droop. Harry hardly drewbreath. Slowly, the dog's growls ceased -- it tottered on its paws andfell to its knees, then it slumped to the ground, fast asleep.
could feel the dog's hot, smelly breathas they approached the giant heads. "I think we'll be able to pull thedoor open," said Ron, peering over the dog's back. "Want to go first,Hermione?"

ring of the trapdoor, which swung up andopen.



e to Hermione so she can keep him asleep."
t Hermione began to play, it fellback into its deep sleep.

on and said, "If anything happens tome, don't follow. Go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig toDumbledore, right?"




ny, muffled sort of thump he landed onsomething soft. He sat up and felt around, his eyes not used to thegloom. It felt as though he was sitting on some sort of plant.
s a soft landing, you can jump!"



anded on Harry's other side.



the plant had started to twistsnakelike tendrils around her ankles. As for Harry and Ron, their legshad already been bound tightly in long creepers without their noticing.
or as the two boys fought to pull the plantoff them, but the more they strained against it, the tighter and fasterthe plant wound around them.

stop the plant from curling around hisneck. "Shut up, I'm trying to remember how to kill it!" said Hermione.







t of the same bluebell flames she hadused on Snape at the plant. In a matter of seconds, the two boys felt itloosening its grip as it cringed away from the light and warmth.Wriggling and flailing, it unraveled itself from their bodies, and theywere able to pull free.
at off his face.


The passageway sloped downward, andHarry was reminded of Gringotts. With an unpleasant jolt of the heart,he remembered the dragons said to be guarding vaults in the wizards'bank. If they met a dragon, a fully-grown dragon -- Norbert had been badenough...







hing high above them. It was full of small,jewel-bright birds, fluttering and tumbling all around the room. On theopposite side of the chamber was a heavy wooden door.

... well, there's no other choice... I'llrun."
eel sharp beaks and claws tearing athim any second, but nothing happened. He reached the door untouched. Hepulled the handle, but it was locked.
Hermione tried her Alohomora charm.



mean..." he looked around the chamber whilethe other two squinted up at the flock of keys. "... yes -- look!Broomsticks! We've got to catch the key to the door!"



s. They grabbed and snatched, but the



gs other people didn't. After a minute'sweaving about through the whirl of rainbow feathers, he noticed a largesilver key that had a bent wing, as if it had already been caught andstuffed roughly into the keyhole.
the feathers are all crumpled on one side."
off his broom.
Ron, you come at it from above -- Hermione,stay below and stop it from going down and I'll try and catch it. Right,NOW!"
oward the wall, Harry leaned forward andwith a nasty, crunching noise, pinned it against the stone with onehand. Ron and Hermione's cheers echoed around the high chamber.
lock and turned -- it worked. The momentthe lock had clicked open, the key took flight again, looking verybattered now that it had been caught twice.
.
ddenly flooded the room to reveal anastonishing sight.
than they were and carved from whatlooked like black stone. Facing them, way across the chamber, were thewhite pieces. Harry, Ron and Hermione shivered slightly -- the toweringwhite chessmen had no faces.







prang to life. The horse pawed theground and the knight turned his helmeted head to look down at Ron.
.
ck pieces...."
hing, but neither of you are that good atchess --"

tle."


urned their backs on the white piecesand walked off the board, leaving three empty squares that Harry, Ron,and Hermione took.




trembling. What if they lost?

or and dragged him off the board, where helay quite still, facedown.
o on."
mp black players slumped along the wall.Twice, Ron only just noticed in time that Harry and Hermione were indanger. He himself darted around the board, taking almost as many whitepieces as they had lost black ones.




take me -- that leaves you free to checkmatethe king, Harry!"









rm, and he crashed to the floor -Hermione screamed but stayed on her square - the white queen dragged Ronto one side. He looked as if he'd been knocked out.

bowed, leaving the door ahead clear. Withone last desperate look back at Ron, Harry and Hermione charged throughthe door and up the next passageway.


transfigured the chessmen to make themalive; that leaves Quirrell's spell, and Snape's."




yes watering, they saw, flat on the floor infront of them, a troll even larger than the one they had tackled, outcold with a bloody lump on its head.
s massive legs. "Come on, I can'tbreathe."
thing very frightening in here, just a tablewith seven differently shaped bottles standing on it in a line.



't ordinary fire either; it was purple. Atthe same instant, black flames shot up in the doorway leading onward.They were trapped.
read it:


















t like doing.
s haven't got an ounce of logic, they'd bestuck in here forever."
. Seven bottles: three are poison; two arewine; one will get us safely through the black fire, and one will get usback through the purple."


herself and pointing at them. At last, sheclapped her hands.






m, they'll get you out of the trapdoorand past Fluffy -- go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig toDumbledore, we need him. I might be able to hold Snape off for a while,but I'm no match for him, really."









y and -- oh Harry -- be careful!"










ed himself, saw the black flames lickinghis body, but couldn't feel them -- for a moment he could see nothingbut dark fire -- then he was on the other side, in the last chamber.










es, Severus does seem the type, doesn'the? So useful to have him swooping around like an overgrown bat. Next tohim, who would suspect p-p-poor, st-stuttering P-Professor Quirrell?"


to set fire to Snape at that Quidditchmatch. She broke my eye contact with you. Another few seconds and I'dhave got you off that broom. I'd have managed it before then if Snapehadn't been muttering a countercurse, trying to save you."

ying to make sure I didn't do itagain. Funny, really... he needn't have bothered. I couldn't do anythingwith Dumbledore watching. All the other teachers thought Snape wastrying to stop Gryffindor from winning, he did make himself unpopular...and what a waste of time, when after all that, I'm going to kill youtonight."


y.
you'd seen me coming to look at whatwas guarding the Stone."

ber back there? Unfortunately, whileeveryone else was running around looking for it, Snape, who alreadysuspected me, went straight to the third floor to head me off -- and notonly did my troll fail to beat you to death, that three-headed dogdidn't even manage to bite Snape's leg off properly.


Trust Dumbledore to come up withsomething like this... but he's in London... I'll be far away by thetime he gets back...."
rror.

me, trying to find out how far I'd got.He suspected me all along. Tried to frighten me - as though he could,when I had Lord Voldemort on my side...."







know? They loathed each other. But he neverwanted you dead."


I am weak --"

foolish young man I was then, full ofridiculous ideas about good and evil. Lord Voldemort showed me how wrongI was. There is no good and evil, there is only power, and those tooweak to seek it.... Since then, I have served him faithfully, although Ihave let him down many times. He has had to be very hard on me."Quirrell shivered suddenly. "He does not forgive mistakes easily. When Ifailed to steal the stone from Gringotts, he was most displeased. Hepunished me... decided he would have to keep a closer watch on me...."
so stupid? He'd seen Quirrell there thatvery day, shaken hands with him in the Leaky Cauldron.



re Quirrell does. So if I look in themirror, I should see myseff finding it -- which means I'll see whereit's hidden! But how can I look without Quirrell realizing what I'm up



round his ankles were too tight: hetripped and fell over. Quirrell ignored him. He was still talking tohimself. "What does this mirror do? How does it work? Help me, Master!"








s turban. He closed his eyes, stepped infront of the mirror, and opened them again.
him. It put its hand into its pocket andpulled out a blood-red stone. It winked and put the Stone back in itspocket -- and as it did so, Harry felt something heavy drop into hisreal pocket. Somehow -- incredibly -- he'd gotten the Stone.


r."



re he make a break for it?







watched as Quirrell reached up and began tounwrap his turban. What was going on? The turban fell away. Quirrell'shead looked strangely small without it. Then he turned slowly on thespot.
ell's head, there was a face, the mostterrible face Harry had ever seen. It was chalk white with glaring redeyes and slits for nostrils, like a snake.


another's body... but there have alwaysbeen those willing to let me into their hearts and minds.... Unicornblood has strengthened me, these past weeks... you saw faithful Quirrelldrinking it for me in the forest... and once I have the Elixir of Life,I will be able to create a body of my own.... Now... why don't you give




e end as your parents.... They died beggingme for mercy..."

iling.
d your father first; and he put up acourageous fight... but your mother needn't have died... she was tryingto protect you.... Now give me the Stone, unless you want her to havedied in vain."

lt Quirrell's hand close on his wrist. Atonce, a needle-sharp pain seared across Harry's scar; his head felt asthough it was about to split in two; he yelled, struggling with all hismight, and to his surprise, Quirrell let go of him. The pain in his headlessened -- he looked around wildly to see where Quirrell had gone, andsaw him hunched in pain, looking at his fingers -- they were blisteringbefore his eyes.
eet' landing on top of him, both handsaround Harry's neck -- Harry's scar was almost blinding him with pain,yet he could see Quirrell howling in agony.

dered, at his own palms -- Harry could seethey looked burned, raw, red, and shiny.



irrell's face --

are skin, not without suffering terriblepain -- his only chance was to keep hold of Quirrell, keep him in enoughpain to stop him from doing a curse.
amed and tried to throw Harry off -- thepain in Harry's head was building -- he couldn't see -- he could onlyhear Quirrell's terrible shrieks and Voldemort's yells of, "KILL HIM!KILL HIM!" and other voices, maybe in Harry's own head, crying, "Harry!Harry!"
down... down...
eavy.


t was Quirrell! He's got the Stone! Sir,quick --"
e the Stone."


bed with white linen sheets, and next



s between you and Professor Quirrell is acomplete secret, so, naturally, the whole school knows. I believe yourfriends Misters Fred and George Weasley were responsible for trying tosend you a toilet seat. No doubt they thought it would amuse you. MadamPomfrey, however, felt it might not be very hygienic, and confiscatedit."

been extremely worried."

t from you. I arrived in time toprevent that, although you were doing very well on your own, I must say.

lace I should be was the one I had justleft. I arrived just in time to pull Quirrell off you."



as afraid it had. As for the Stone, it hasbeen destroyed."

ly, didn't you? Well, Nicolas and I have hada little chat, and agreed it's all for the best."





e going to bed after a very, very longday. After all, to the well-organized mind, death is but the next greatadventure. You know, the Stone was really not such a wonderful thing. Asmuch money and life as you could want! The two things most human beingswould choose above all -- the trouble is, humans do have a knack ofchoosing precisely those things that are worst for them." Harry laythere, lost for words. Dumbledore hummed a little and smiled at theceiling.
o --"
he thing itself."
, has he?"
not being truly alive, he cannot be killed.He left Quirrell to die; he shows just as little mercy to his followersas his enemies. Nevertheless, Harry, while you may only have delayed hisreturn to power, it will merely take someone else who is prepared tofight what seems a losing battle next time -- and if he is delayedagain, and again, why, he may never return to power."
other things I'd like to know, if you cantell me... things I want to know the truth about...."
d with great caution. However, I shallanswer your questions unless I have a very good reason not to, in whichcase I beg you'll forgive me. I shall not, of course, lie."


But why would he want to kill me in thefirst place?"

ut it from your mind for now, Harry.When you are older... I know you hate to hear this... when you areready, you will know."


't realize that love as powerful as yourmother's for you leaves its own mark. Not a scar, no visible sign... tohave been loved so deeply, even though the person who loved us is gone,will give us some protection forever. It is in your very skin. Quirrell,full of hatred, greed, and ambition, sharing his soul with Voldemort,could not touch you for this reason. It was agony to touch a personmarked by something so good."
is eyes on the sheet. When he had foundhis voice again, Harry said, "And the invisibility cloak - do you knowwho sent it to me?"
's eyes twinkled. "Useful things... yourfather used it mainly for sneaking off to the kitchens to steal foodwhen he was here."



true?"


id something Snape could never forgive."



ldn't bear being in your father's debt....I do believe he worked so hard to protect you this year because he feltthat would make him and your father even. Then he could go back tohating your father's memory in peace...."




that's saying something. You see, onlyone who wanted to find the Stone -- find it, but not use it -- would beable to get it, otherwise they'd just see themselves making gold ordrinking Elixir of Life. My brain surprises even me sometimes.... Now,enough questions. I suggest you make a start on these sweets. Ah! BettieBott's Every Flavor Beans! I was unfortunate enough in my youth to comeacross a vomitflavored one, and since then I'm afraid I've rather lostmy liking for them -- but I think I'll be safe with a nice toffee, don'tyou?"












is head was still very sore.


d rumors. Harry told them everything:Quirrell; the mirror; the Stone; and Voldemort. Ron and Hermione were avery good audience; they gasped in all the right places, and when Harrytold them what was under Quirrell's turban, Hermione screamed out loud.

is but the next great adventure.


dashing up to the owlery to contactDumbledore when we met him in the entrance hall -- he already knew -- hejust said, 'Harry's gone after him, hasn't he?' and hurtled off to the




."
give me a chance. I think he knows more orless everything that goes on here, you know. I reckon he had a prettygood idea we were going to try, and instead of stopping us, he justtaught us enough to help. I don't think it was an accident he let mefind out how the mirror worked. It's almost like he thought I had theright to face Voldemort if I could...."
e end-of-year feast tomorrow. Thepoints are all in and Slytherin won, of course -- you missed the lastQuidditch match, we were steamrollered by Ravenclaw without you -- butthe food'll be good."



n't I?"
Professor Dumbledore didn't realizehow risky feasts could be. "And you have another visitor."

allowed. He sat down next to Harry,took one look at him, and burst into tears.
get past Fluffy! I told him! It was the only


! I should be chucked out an' made terlive as a Muggle!"
into his beard. "Hagrid, he'd havefound out somehow, this is Voldemort we're talking about, he'd havefound out even if you hadn't told him."

ing him by his name. Please cheer up,Hagrid, we saved the Stone, it's gone, he can't use it. Have a ChocolateFrog, I've got loads...."

h. Dumbledore gave me the day offyesterday ter fix it. 'Course, he shoulda sacked me instead -- anyway,got yeh this..."
otographs. Smiling and waving at himfrom every page were his mother and father.
.. d'yeh like it?"

ey's fussing about, insisting on givinghim one last checkup, so the Great Hall was already full. It was deckedout in the Slytherin colors of green and silver to celebrate Slytherin'swinning the house cup for the seventh year in a row. A huge bannershowing the Slytherin serpent covered the wall behind the High Table.
lipped into a seat between Ron and Hermioneat the Gryffindor table and tried to ignore the fact that people were




affle before we sink our teeth into ourdelicious feast. What a year it has been! Hopefully your heads are all alittle fuller than they were... you have the whole summer ahead to getthem nice and empty before next year starts....
ce, Gryffindor, with three hundred andtwelve points; in third, Hufflepuff, with three hundred and fifty-two;Ravenclaw has four hundred and twenty-six and Slytherin, four hundredand seventy- two."
ging his goblet on the table. It was asickening sight.
."




points."
ld be heard telling the otherprefects, "My brother, you know! My youngest brother! Got pastMcGonagall's giant chess set!"





up and down the table were besidethemselves -- they were a hundred points up. "Third -- to Mr. HarryPotter..." said Dumbledore. The room went deadly quiet for pure nerveand outstanding courage, I award Gryffindor house sixty points."
w had four hundred and seventy-two points-- exactly the same as Slytherin. They had tied for the house cup -- ifonly Dumbledore had given Harry just one more point.

d up to our enemies, but just as much tostand up to our friends. I therefore award ten points to Mr. NevilleLongbottom."
e, so loud was the noise that eruptedfrom the Gryffindor table. Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood up to yell andcheer as Neville, white with shock, disappeared under a pile of peoplehugging him. He had never won so much as a point for Gryffindor before.Harry, still cheering, nudged Ron in the ribs and pointed at Malfoy, whocouldn't have looked more stunned and horrified if he'd just had theBody-Bind Curse put on him.
lebrating the downfall of Slytherin, "weneed a little change of decoration."
e huge Slytherin serpent vanished and atowering Gryffindor lion took its place. Snape was shaking ProfessorMcGonagall's hand, with a horrible, forced smile. He caught Harry's eyeand Harry knew at once that Snape's feelings toward him hadn't changedone jot. This didn't worry Harry. It seemed as though life would be backto normal next year, or as normal as it ever was at Hogwarts.
out mountain trolls... he would



t surprise, both he and Ron passed with goodmarks; Hermione, of course, had the best grades of the first years. EvenNeville scraped through, his good Herbology mark making up for hisabysmal Potions one. They had hoped that Goyle, who was almost as stupidas he was mean, might be thrown out, but he had passed, too. It was ashame, but as Ron said, you couldn't have everything in life.
in a corner of the toilets; notes werehanded out to all students, warning them not to use magic over theholidays ("I always hope they'll forget to give us these," said FredWeasley sadly); Hagrid was there to take them down to the fleet of boatsthat sailed across the lake; they were boarding the Hogwarts Express;talking and laughing as the countryside became greener and tidier;eating Bettie Bott's Every Flavor Beans as they sped past Muggle towns;pulling off their wizard robes and putting on jackets and coats; pullinginto platform nine and three-quarters at King's Cross Station.
barrier, letting them go through the gatein twos and threes so they didn't attract attention by all bursting outof a solid wall at once and alarming the Muggles.

ward toward the gateway back to the Muggleworld. Some of them called:















, carrying an owl in a cage in a stationfull of ordinary people. Behind him stood Aunt Petunia and Dudley,looking terrified at the very sight of Harry.

.


ed that anyone could be sounpleasant.
don't know we're not allowed to use magicat home. I'm going to have a lot of fun with Dudley this summer...."

